
Chapter One: Into the Cloakwood
A1 - On the Outskirts of Ulgoth’s Beard

A2 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop

It’s a cloudy midmorning, and you stand at the
edge of the sleepy hamlet Ulgoth’s Beard. Above
you is a floating house that circles lazily in the
coastal breeze. From your view on the ground, it’s
clear that this house used to be a ship, converted
with a roof and additional rooms to accommodate
permanent life anchored to the small village. In the
house’s shadow, you take the folded job posting
from your pocket, smoothing out the parchment to
read it once more.

Shandalar leads you through the tight wooden
hallways of his home, eventually opening a door
and ushering you into a room. You find yourself
inside a crowded workshop. Tools and gears hang
on the wall next to shelves of books and jars. In the
centre of the room is a table covered in blueprints,
dried mushrooms, and various crystals. One
particularly large piece of quartz catches your
attention as it pulses with a faint white light.

Seeking adventurer for an easy delivery job
HUGE 200 GP reward
Come to floating house at the edge of Ulgoth’s Beard for
more details
- Shandalar

As you crane your head up to confirm that this
was indeed the right floating house, the magical
structure comes to a stop in the air. From far
above you can hear faint clicks and rattles as a
mechanism is activated, and a moment later a rope
ladder unravels itself with the end landing right at
your feet. With no spoken invitation, you start to
climb up the ladder, hoping to not lose your grasp
as you sway in the wind.

Your observations are interrupted by Shandalar
placing a flagon of mystery liquid on the table in
front of you.
“What I need you to do is to go deliver this to the
Lady in Green that lives in the Cloakwood, along
with the message that I, Shandalar, require her
services in the caverns below my house. Naturebased magic is powerful, you see, and I cannot sell
mushrooms if I cannot grow them, and I cannot
grow them without her magic,” Shandalar rambles
his instructions. “As you can tell, this job is very
important, and you will be rewarded well once you
return with her.”
He pauses for a moment, waiting for you to nod
before he continues. “If you just go across the river
and into the Cloakwood, take a left and then… wait,

After a climb that stretches on for a little too long,
you finally reach the deck. Pulling yourself up onto
the wooden surface, a pair of feet comes into view. A
human man peers down at you through askew halfglasses, his eyes wide and twinkling with a manic
energy. His long white hair and beard stand on end
as if someone had just zapped him, giving him an
even wilder look as he leans down with a grin.
“Ah! You must have received my summons, yes?
I was expecting someone days ago, but you’ll
do, you’ll do,” the man you can only assume is
Shandalar says hastily, his words almost tripping
over each other. “Come along now, no time to waste!
I have a storm to catch shortly.” He turns to head
inside the ship, expecting you to follow him.
As you follow him inside, go to A2.

5

I should have a map somewhere...” He turns to his
bookshelf, starting to search through his tomes.
As Shandalar searches for the map, you have a
moment to digest his instructions and investigate
an object a little further.
If you peek inside the cask, go to A3.
If you pick up the quartz, go to A4.

A3 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop
Cracking open the flagon, you find a light pink
liquid inside. Make a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception)
check.
If your check fails, you are unsure of what the
mystery liquid is, and you close the lid of the flagon.
Perhaps some things are better left unknown. Go to
A7.
If your check succeeds, you note the creamy
texture and the sweet yet oddly coppery smell of
the liquid. After a moment, you are able to identify
this liquid as an unconventional mixture of milk,
honey, and blood. You close the lid of the flagon,
and Shandalar notices over his shoulder. He shrugs
nonchalantly. “It’s her favorite drink, handmade
with my own blood! Powerful Fey beings like the
Lady in Green have very particular tastes.” Go to
A7.

A4 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop
As you pick up the quartz in your hand, it feels
warm to the touch. The white light continues to
pulse with a slow and gentle rhythm, the crystal
unmistakably arcane in some way. Make a DC 10
Intelligence (Arcana) check.
If your check fails, the arcane nature of this
crystal escapes you. You put it on the table before
Shandalar can notice that it had been moved. Go to
A7.
If your check succeeds, you’re able to identify this
object as a Crystal of Identify (see Appendix, page
57). You know this would be a very valuable tool for
any adventurer on a quest.
If you put it back on the table before Shandalar
notices, go to A7.
If you try to pocket it for yourself, go to A5.
If you try to convince Shandalar to let you take it,
go to A6.

A5 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop
You attempt to pocket the Crystal of Identify
before Shandalar can catch you. Make a DC 13
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
If your check succeeds, you tuck the crystal away
into your pocket. While you can’t see the glow of the
quartz anymore, it feels warm against your body, a
reminder of its powers. Go to A7.
If your check fails, the light within the crystal
suddenly flares. As you blink away the spots
from the intense light, you see Shandalar now
standing in front of you with a sour expression.
“Adventurers...” he mutters, shaking his head as he
takes the item. “Mark my words, you’ll always get
caught red-handed, yes...”
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Red-Handed. Every time you steal an item, your
hands will turn a bright crimson until the item is
returned to its owner. Go to A7.

A6 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop
As Shandalar turns around to put down a stack
of books, you catch his attention and attempt to
convince him to let you have the magic crystal.
Make a DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
If your check succeeds, Shandalar pauses for
a moment as he listens to your request. He then
shrugs with a small nod. “Ah yes, that would
indeed be useful in your journey, I assume. Take it
as a form of prepayment or something.” As he turns
back around to continue his search for the map,
you take the Crystal of Identify and add it to your
inventory. Go to A7.
If your check fails, Shandalar shakes his head and
takes the crystal from your hands. “Unfortunately
this is a very valuable item and I can’t be giving
things to random adventurers willy-nilly. Maybe
you can buy one for yourself after the job.” He puts
it into his pocket and returns to his search for the
map. Go to A7.

A7 - Inside Shandalar’s Workshop
After a few minutes of cursing and shuffling papers,
Shandalar suddenly shoots upright and spins
towards you with a piece of parchment in hand.
“Aha, I knew it was in here, I just didn’t expect to
find it inside of that... anyways, here’s a map!” He
places it on the table in front of you next to the
flagon.

6

On the parchment is a hastily scribbled drawing
of the Cloakwood. Dashed lines show a winding
pathway through the forest, dipping into thickets
and creeks before arriving at a cave. At the bottom
of the map is a note written in Common.
Beware of Cloakwood! In the forest you will find more
dangers than you bargained for...

When you finish reading the map, Shandalar claps
his hands. “Well then, I look forward to seeing
you back here again with the Lady in Green. Good
luck!” Before you can object, a glow emanates
from your feet. You look down and see that you’re
standing in the middle of an arcane circle. With a
blink, you no longer stand inside of Shandalar’s
home.
Add a flagon of mystery liquid to your inventory,
and then go to A8.

A8 - At the Cloakwood’s Edge
You are standing in front of a large, ancient forest.
Gnarled and twisted trees tower above you, their
branches intertwining into a dense canopy. Very
little sunlight pierces through the leaves, covering
the forest floor in shade. The sound of distant
running water mixes with the buzz of insects, and
the air is filled with the smell of decaying leaves and
damp earth.
As you consult your map, you notice two pathways
in front of you. The one that the map guides you
towards is a narrow path on the left, barely visible
through the overgrown brush. You quickly realize
that you would have to spend a lot of energy and
time bushwhacking flora to get anywhere that way.
The other trail is a well-trodden and clear pathway
on the right. It seems a much easier walk, though

it would mean trying to navigate without the help of
the map.
If you take the overgrown pathway, go to A9.
If you take the clear pathway, go to A11.

A9 - Through Overgrown Brush
You push your way through the thicket, bending
foliage out of your way as you carefully navigate the
dirt path. Branches and leaves snag on your clothes
and bag, slowing you down on your trek. The path
dips down onto the shores of a ravine before taking
you back up and winding through crowded trees.
Though you can’t see the sun through the canopy,
you believe that you have been travelling for over an
hour.
As you stop to take a breather and drink some
water, you hear a skittering noise above you. Make
a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check.
If your check fails, you don’t see anything, but
you do feel something against your hand. As you
look down, you see thick, white thread stuck to
your hand. As you try to move your hand away, the
thread sticks to you, starting to pull on what you
now realize is a giant spider’s web. Above you, the
skittering noise resumes, and it dawns on you that
you’re about to become something’s meal. Go to
A10.
If your check succeeds, you spot something
glimmering in the faint amount of sunlight. On
closer inspection, it’s a giant spider’s web. Following
the web’s threads with your eyes, you see that it
spans the entire width of the path directly ahead
of you, and it looks like it would be big enough to
catch someone your size. However, you also spot
a tear in the web, allowing you to safely sidestep
around this spider’s trap. Go to A15.

7

A10 - Caught in the Spider’s Web

Giant Cloakwood Spider

Looking up, you see the dark form of a spider
starting to descend down the web. You better get
out of there before the spider succeeds on making
you into its snack!

Large beast, unaligned

During this encounter, the giant spider begins
20 feet above you on the giant web. It attempts
to cocoon you from a distance with its ranged web
attack, before it gets up close to attack you with
its paralyzing bite. Because you are caught in the
spider’s web, at the start of each of your turns, you
must succeed on a DC 11 Strength (Athletics)
check, or your movement speed is reduced by half
until the start of your next turn.
If you decide to escape this encounter, you must
spend 1 point of Destiny. You watch in horror as
the spider descends towards you with clacking
mandibles. Just before you are devoured, another
dark shape flits across your vision. You see an even
larger giant spider appear, suddenly attacking the
smaller spider! As the two monsters begin to fight
each other, you have enough time to free yourself
and run off down the pathway to live, uneaten,
another day.
If you survive your encounter with the giant
spider, you only realize once you have escaped the
sticking web that you have lost a flagon of mystery
liquid from your possessions and are unable to find
it again despite all effort. You can feel your heart
beat a little faster with panic, as your adventure
seems to already be in jeopardy. Remove the item
from your inventory, and then go to A15.

Armor Class 12
Hit Points 15 (2d10+4)
Speed 40 ft., climb 40 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

14 (+2)

14 (+2)

15 (+2)

6 (-2)

12 (+1)

4 (-3)

Skills Perception +3, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive perception 13
Languages Challenge 1 /4 (50 XP)

Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces,
including upside down on ceilings, without needing
to make an ability check.
Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the spider
knows the exact location of any other creature in
contact with the same web.
Web Walker. The spider ignores movement
restrictions caused by webbing.
Actions
Bite. Melee weapon attack:+4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage, and the target
must take a DC 8 Constitution saving throw, or become
paralyzed until the end of its next turn.
Web (Recharge 5-6). +4 to hit, range 15/30 ft., one creature.
Hit: the target becomes cocooned by webbing and is
restrained and blinded. As an action, the restrained target
can make either a DC 11 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity
(Acrobatics) check, bursting free from the cocoon on a
success.

8

A11 - Through the Clear Pathway

A13 - The Side of the Pathway

You turn to the right and head down the clear
pathway. The walk is level and easy, with only the
gentlest of slopes through the Cloakwood. The way
before you is lit by sunbeams that pass through the
canopy and dot the forest floor with spots of warm
light.

Trying to placate the boggarts, you reach into your
bag and take out a gift for them. Holding it out, you
offer it to them as your toll for using their road.
Make a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) check.

After a few minutes, your pleasant walk is
interrupted when you feel something hit your arm.
Instinctively looking to see what has struck you,
and a small rock falls to the ground next to your
feet. Before you can react, another rock pelts you
right in the forehead. As you rub the sore spot on
your head, you hear maniacal giggling from a bush
next to the road ahead of you.

If your check succeeds, you are able to persuade
the boggarts that this is an appropriately valuable
item to pay the toll. They snatch your offering from
your hand and run off cackling with their ill-gotten
treasure. After they leave, you find a bag of ball
bearings in the bushes where they had been hiding
out. Go to A15.

If your check fails, then go to A14.

If you turn around to follow the overgrown path
instead, go to A9.
If you investigate the giggling bush, go to A12.
If you ignore the bush and continue, go to A14.

A12 - The Side of the Pathway
Following the sound of giggling to the bush,
you peer through the foliage and see a group of
boggarts. A total of five of them roll around on the
ground, cackling to themselves. Their squat noses
are scrunched up in laughter, their clawed hands
clap in delight, and their smiles are pulled wide
enough to see all of their long, wickedly sharp teeth.
When they notice that you’ve spotted them, the
boggarts stand up straight and huddle together.
One of them points an accusatory finger at you.
“You! Traveller! You pass on our road, and you must
pay the toll!”
If you try to placate the boggarts, go to A13.
If you try to brush the boggarts off, go to A14.

9

A14 - The Side of the Pathway

Swarm of Wild Boggarts
Medium swarm of small fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 22 (5d8)
Speed 25 ft., climb 25 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

10 (+0)

8 (-1)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

Skills Perception +3, Stealth +3
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive perception 13
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, slashing
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

Pile On. Any creature that ends its turn in a space occupied
by the swarm must succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity saving
throw, or be knocked prone.
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space
and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any
opening large enough for a small creature. The swarm can’t
regain hit points or gain temporary hit points.
Actions

Bite. Melee weapon attack: +3 to hit, reach 0 ft., one
creature in the swarm’s space. Hit: 8 (2d6+1) piercing
damage, or 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage if the swarm has half
of its hit points or fewer.

“How dare you?!” shrieks the boggarts in a terrible
chorus. “Traveller thinks they’re clever, trying to
not pay the toll, and now they must pay with their
blood!” With that, the group of boggarts swarm you,
attempting to tear you apart with their tiny, but
razor-sharp nails.
During this encounter, the swarm of wild boggarts
begin 10 feet away from you. They attempt to
swarm around you, jump and climb on top of you,
and knock you prone before ripping into you with
their sharp little teeth.
If you decide to escape this encounter, you must
spend 1 point of Destiny. As the boggarts tear into
you, stripping you of your belongings and throwing
them off to the side, a flagon of mystery liquid
falls and shatters. All of the boggarts stop and stare
at it with wide, fearful eyes. “Oh no, oh no, we’ve
hindered the delivery, the Lady will be SO angry.
We must hide, hide, hide!” The boggarts scramble
off of you, skittering deep into the forest. Remove
the item from your character sheet and continue
reading.
If you manage to survive your encounter with the
swarm of boggarts, you gather yourself, and then
continue your hike through the Cloakwood. Go to
A15.

A15 - The Entrance of a Cave
After walking through the Cloakwood for another
hour, you turn a bend and find yourself in front
of a cave. You can see delicate leaves and flowers
carved into the dark green stone that marks the
cave’s entrance. You feel a soft, fresh breeze from
the opening, and see a faint purple light emanating
from much deeper within the cave. Confirming your
location with your map, you’re sure that this is the
dwelling of the Lady in Green.
As you put away the map, you hear something
carried along by the breeze that escapes from
within the cave. The sound changes, becoming
melodic, a voice humming a soft and soothing song.
It pulls at you, and you feel compelled to enter the
cave. Make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw.
If your check succeeds or you are immune to
the charmed condition, you are able to shake off
the charming effect of the song. As you step into
the cave, you find a Wand of Shield (see Appendix,
page 57) nestled behind a rock. Add the item to
your inventory, and then go to A16.

10

If your check fails, the enchanting melody draws
you to find its source. You enter the cave, ignoring
everything but the song. Go to A16.

woman’s true, sinister form revealed; her eyes glow
red, black-feathered wings explode from her back,
and a halo of fire ignites around the top of her
head.

A16 - Inside the Cave

“You heard the Lady. Begone, you fool of a mortal,”
the terrifying being’s many voices echo. The portal
flares with arcane energy, though now that magical
light changes from purple to a deep crimson. The
armoured woman lifts a hand, and before you can
say or do anything, she snaps her fingers. The red
light floods your senses, forcing you to close your
eyes, and you feel as though you’re falling and
falling and falling… until you can feel nothing at all.

As you move deeper into the cave, the strange,
purple light grows brighter, refracting across
crystals that line the rocky walls. Stone floor gives
way to grass and wildflowers under your feet,
softening your footsteps. The humming becomes
more clear and loud, and then you turn a corner
to find yourself in a small cavern. The ceiling is
covered in large crystals, and butterflies flit through
the air. A gentle breeze blows through, carrying
with it a faint and sweet floral scent.
In the middle of the cavern are two figures
illuminated by the glow of a shimmering purple
portal, the source of the strange light that led you
here. One of the pair looks to be a blonde elven
woman in a green dress, sitting with her legs
tucked under her. The Lady in Green looks down
at her companion, and a soft smile touches her
lips as she hums. The other figure appears to be
a human woman sitting on the ground with her
head resting on the Lady’s lap. She’s dressed in a
heavy gold chestplate and a black skirt that spills
out onto the grass. Black warpaint streaks across
her pale face and her shaved head, giving her a
fierce appearance, but her eyes are closed and the
expression cast across her face is serene.

Advance your character to level 2, gain the
benefits of having taken a long rest, and then go
to B1.

As you take one step closer, the humming abruptly
stops, and you can see the Lady in Green staring
at you with a flustered expression. She stands
up quickly, and her abrupt, hasty rise reveals
that beneath the Lady’s green skirt, she stands
on a pair of very hairy goat legs. The armoured
woman follows suit, rising majestically, her serene
expression now gone, replaced by a burning scowl.
“How dare you trespass into my home?,” the Lady
in Green demands. Though her voice is sweet, it
carries a resonating anger. Her hands bunch into
the skirt, her face still flushed red. “Get out at
once!”
The armoured woman takes the Lady’s hand and
presses a short kiss to her knuckles. The woman
then speaks with a proud voice that booms over
a chorus of a hundred quieter, tortured voices
whispering the same words. “Do not worry, my
Lady. I will make certain they are dealt with, as
I always do.” After her promise, she turns her
attention back towards you, and you see her
form flicker. For a moment, you see the armoured

11






---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Chapter Two: Welcome to Hell

B1 - In a Dark, Bone-Littered Cave

B2 - The Forgotten Memorial

You open your eyes and find yourself lying
awkwardly in a pile of objects that press sharply
into your back. The area around you is gloomy and
dark, barely lit by a single torch glowing with a dim,
but pure white flame. You struggle to push up to
your feet, and as your eyes adjust to the dark, you
find yourself in a large cave. Something cracks and
groans under your feet, and as you look down, you
notice that you are standing on an ancient pile of
brittle human bones that protest loudly beneath
your weight.

You stand before a simple wooden torch that
glows with a pure white flame. The fire is cool and
calming, and you feel your panic subside when you
are near it. The torch’s sconce is a few simple iron
bands holding it into the obsidian wall. Next to it on
the wall, you can see the faint outline of what might
have once been a passage, but the indentiation has
been filled in now, sealing you inside this tomb with
only the dead to keep you company.

You wade through the bones and towards that dim
white light at the other end of the cave, ready at
any moment for the dead to rise and grasp at you
with skeletal fingers. You can see shadows dancing
all around you with every crunch, every footfall.
Your heart is pounding against your chest as you
reconcile your new reality.
Where are you? Are you still in the Cloakwood? And
how will you get out of this cave?
Make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw.
If your saving throw fails, note the following trait on
your character sheet: Fear of Bony Things.
Go to B2.

At the foot of the obsidian wall, the torchlight
focuses on a small iron pedestal that rises a foot off
of the ground. The area around it has been cleared
of skeletons and bones. Laid out on the pedestal
are three objects, covered in dust and ash: a small
silver amulet carved into the shape of an eye, a seagreen emerald that glows beneath the light, and a
sharp but slightly bent copper spear.
The base of the pedestal has beautiful runes etched
into its surface.
If you understand the Celestial language, you can read
the words etched into the pedestal. Otherwise, skip this
section and continue reading on the next page.
To Fight the Darkness, We Must Always Hold Onto the
Light.

12

If you ignore the items and try to find a way out of
here, go to B3.
If you pick up the silver amulet, go to B4.
If you pick up glowing emerald, go to B5.
If you pick up the copper spear, go to B6.

B3 - At the Exit of the Dark Cave
You leave the ancient items where they lie and
turn your attention towards the sealed passage
that seems to be your only way out of this horrible
place. The torchlight’s glow shows that the outlines
on the wall stretch the width of a bear and are
nearly twice your height. However, the indentations
seem completely filled in by some sticky, tar-like
substance.
If you try to force the passage open with brute
strength, go to B7.
If you try to remove the tar sealant with thieves’
tools, go to B8.
If you try to cast a spell, decide which spell you are
casting, and then go to B9.
If you would rather examine the pedestal again, go
to B2.

B4 - The Forgotten Memorial
You pick up the amulet and take a closer look at
it. Its chain still shines beneath the glow of the
torchlight, and its silver emblem is etched into a
feminine eye. As you hold the amulet in your hands,
you feel as though someone is watching over you,
even here in this grim place. If you would like
to put the amulet back and examine a different
object, return to B2 and make a different choice.
Otherwise, continue reading.
Suddenly, a thunderous rumble shakes the cavern
and nearly rocks you off of your feet. Slowly, the
sealed exit rolls into the obsidian wall, revealing a
tunnel that seems to lead out of this tomb. At the
other end of the tunnel, you can see a bright red
light. When you look back at the pedestal, however,
it and the other items are simply gone -- as though
they were never there at all.
A haunting wind whips through the tunnel, and
you hear it whisper to you in a tortured voice.
“Arrogance! Pride! Zariel once believed … that the
devils and the demons … would never find us, while
she led our hosts into battle. Oh pity on us ... that

she … was wroooong.”
Casting the spell Identify or using a charge from a
Crystal of Identify on the amulet reveals it to be an
Amulet of Proof against Detection and Location (see
Appendix, page 57).

It’s time to leave. For taking an artifact from the
tomb, lose one point of Destiny, and then go to
B10.

B5 - The Forgotten Memorial
Holding the glowing emerald in your hands, you
get a closer look. Beneath its shining surface lurks
a shifting shadow that seems to avoid your touch,
and when you hold the gem up to your ears and
shake it, you can hear something sloshing about
inside. If you would like to put the emerald back
and examine a different object, return to B2 and
make a different choice. Otherwise, continue
reading.
Suddenly, a thunderous rumble shakes the cavern
and nearly rocks you off of your feet. Slowly, the
sealed exit rolls into the obsidian wall, revealing a
tunnel that seems to lead out of this tomb. At the
other end of the tunnel, you can see a bright red
light. When you look back at the pedestal, however,
it and the other items are simply gone -- as though
they were never there at all.
A haunting wind whips through the tunnel, and
you hear it whisper to you in a tortured voice.
“Zariel had many friends, from the hosts of the upper
planes, to the elementals who roamed the worlds of
their own making. But it was not enough! She … she
should have known … the fiends … will never stop
coming … until they swallow all of the planes into
the Abyss!”
Casting the spell Identify or using a charge from a
Crystal of Identify on the gem reveals it to be an
elemental gem (water) (see Appendix, page 57).

It’s time to leave. For taking an artifact from the
tomb, lose one point of Destiny, then go to B10.

B6 - The Forgotten Memorial
When you pick up the bent copper spear in
your hand, it seems to be nothing more than an
unremarkable, broken old weapon. A moment later,
you feel a crackle of energy trickle into your hand
up through your elbow, and you begin to hear a
soft buzzing in your right ear when you grip the
haft of the spear. If you would like to put the spear

13

back and examine a different object, return to B2
and make a different choice. Otherwise, continue
reading.

you work against the black stone, you can feel
an unnatural cold creep out from it, searing your
nerves and draining the energy out of you.

Suddenly, a thunderous rumble shakes the cavern
and nearly rocks you off of your feet. Slowly, the
sealed exit rolls into the obsidian wall, revealing a
tunnel that seems to lead out of this tomb. At the
other end of the tunnel, you can see a bright red
light. When you look back at the pedestal, however,
it and the other items are simply gone -- as though
they were never there at all.

Make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking
2d6 necrotic damage on a failure, and half as
much damage on a success. If you are still alive,
you can continue to try to open the tunnel by
making a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check.

A haunting wind whips through the tunnel, and
you hear it whisper to you in a tortured voice.
“I remember the day when our host was defeated,
when Zariel’s sword lay shattered on the ashen
plains … I made this place my own, a shrine to
remember those that we lost … and so I waited, and
waited, for Zariel to return here and rescue me … but
instead she betrayed me, she betrayed us all! … Did
you know that an angel could die of a broken heart?”
Casting the spell Identify or using a charge from a
Crystal of Identify on the spear reveals it to be a
Javelin of Lightning (see Appendix, page 57).

It’s time to leave. For taking an artifact from the
tomb, lose one point of Destiny, and then go to
B10.

B7 - At the Exit of the Dark Cave
You dig deep into the reserves of your strength
and heave your body against the sealed exit, trying
to force your way out of this horrible place. As

If your check succeeds, you escape the tomb
and proceed down a narrow tunnel that leads to a
bright red light at its far end. Go to B10.
If your check fails, you find yourself inexplicably
drawn back to the altar. Go to B2.

B8 - At the Exit of the Dark Cave
You use your thieves’ tools to try to loosen the
sticky sealant so that you can slide open the
stone barring your exit. As you work, the strange
substance begins to fall away, and pieces of it
attach to your clothes and skin with a sickening
slurping sound. Where the alien material makes
contact, you feel a searing cold, and find yourself
getting dizzy and weak.
Make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking
2d6 necrotic damage on a failure, and half as
much damage on a success. If you are still alive,
you can continue to try to open the tunnel by
making a DC 12 Dexterity (Sleight-of-Hand)
check.
If your check succeeds, you escape the tomb
and proceed down a narrow tunnel that leads to a
bright red light at its far end. Go to B10.
If your check fails, you find yourself inexplicably
drawn back to the altar. Go to B2.

B9 - At the Exit of the Dark Cave
You cast a spell in hopes that it may help you
escape the skeletal corpse-filled tomb.
If the spell you cast was Dancing Lights, Light,
Produce Flame, Faerie Fire, or a similar spell that
creates a new light source, the tomb responds to
your magic. Otherwise, your spell was not helpful
and the sealed exit no longer responds to your
magic. You may not try casting a spell to escape the
cave again. Go to B2.
If your spell worked, continue reading on the next
page.

14

Suddenly, a thunderous rumble shakes the cavern
and nearly rocks you off of your feet. Slowly, the
sealed exit rolls into the obsidian wall, revealing a
tunnel that seems to lead out of this tomb. At the
other end of the tunnel, you can see a bright red
light. When you look back at the pedestal, however,
it and the other items are simply gone -- as though
they were never there at all.

“Aw, Robb, that’s one of the nicest things you ever
told me,” Amelia answers obliviously, before their
dialogue trails off, replaced by a few muffled grunts.

A haunting wind whips through the tunnel, and
you hear it whisper to you in a damned voice.

As you peer down over the ridge, you see a crimson
sand dune nestled up against the foot of the hill
you’re on. And there, in the shadow of the ridge,
you see Robb, a bald dwarven male with a long
black beard, wearing a loose-fitting tunic and
sandy pants. Arguing with Robb is Amelia, a tall,
tan-skinned human woman wearing battered
armor, shield, and helm. Both of the figures are
armed with longswords, while the dwarf also has a
light crossbow hanging from his belt. It only takes
a moment to realize that Robb and Amelia are
bandits, and you watch them drag several blackrobed corpses through the sand, away from a great
metal machine.

“The devil Zariel was once the most glorious of all
of our host … but now, now, now, the traitor has
fallen so far. Perhaps there is some light ... burning
inside of her shriveled heart … but we-the-dead will
neeeever forgive her … for what she has done!”
It’s time to leave. Go to B10.

B10 - A Scorched Canyon
The entrance to the tomb seals behind you, and it’s
a short walk through the narrow tunnel to what
lies beyond. As you get closer to the red light at the
other end of the underground corridor, the choking
air becomes dry and hot. When you emerge, you
find yourself standing on a ridge overlooking
a lifeless canyon of obsidian rock, dotted with
crimson sand and ruined, scorched buildings.
Everything about this hellish landscape seems
dangerous and alien to you: There is no sun, nor
clouds or stars in the blood-red sky above you.
Instead, you see streaks of fire shoot across the
horizon, blasting the wasteland wherever they fall.
You are so taken by the shock of what you are
seeing that it takes you a moment to realize that
there are voices coming from beyond the edge of the
ridge you’re standing on.

You carefully peer down over the ridge to see more.
Go to B11.

B11 - Looking Down at an Infernal Machine

The dark steel machine that the bandits are
dragging the bodies away from immediately steals
your attention. Its twenty-foot long body is mounted
on many wheels of varying sizes and is reminiscent
of a carriage, but only vaguely so. The wheeledmachine is encased in dangerous armored plates
that are wrapped in black chains and decorated
with jagged, intimidating steel edges. At the hood
of the machine, where its width narrows, is a large
humanoid head made out of wax, its expression
twisted in perpetual torment. On top of the machine
is a slender metal canon loaded with a long, iron
harpoon. Meanwhile, two smoking silver rods that
remind you of oversized magic wands are sticking
out of the machine’s tail.

“Nah, nah. Strip’em first, then ya drag’em, ya big
oaf. It’s too hot to lug around anythin’ we can’t
barter, and we’ve gotta get this machine workin’
if we wanna survive gettin’ back across the river
before Mad Maggie and her gang catches us out’ere
on her turf,” you hear a nasally man bark, his voice
cracking several times.
“Oi, Robb! What you think we can get for their
robes? Might make for a good disguise,” a deep
female voice bellows back, sounding almost merry
despite their oppressive surroundings.
“We’ll get a big nothin’ for those robes, ‘cause
they’re covered in blood! I swear, Amelia, if ya
weren’t so good at murder...” Robb bemoans, his
voice cracking again at the end.

15

As you survey the scene, realizing that this
machine may be your one-way ticket out of
this hellish canyon, make a DC 10 Wisdom
(Perception) check.
If your check succeeds, you notice that a small
leather backpack is lying in the sand near the
Infernal War Machine. If you want to try to sneak
around the bandits to retrieve the backpack quietly,
go to B12.
If your check fails, or if you do not attempt to
stealth, you will have to deal with the bandits
directly.
If you try to greet the bandits and hope they will
help you, go to B13.
If you try to ambush the bandits before they spot
you, go to B14.

B12 - A Scorched Canyon
You try to climb quietly down from the ridge and
sneak across the dune without being spotted by the
bandits. Make a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check.
If your check fails, you kick a large black stone
half-buried in the sand and nearly trip, drawing the
bandits’ attention. Go to B13.
If your check succeeds, you manage to keep your
face covered from the onslaught of sand being
kicked up by howling winds, and you sneak past
the pair of bandits as they continue to argue with
each other. When you reach the backpack you find
the following items inside: a bag of salt, a soul
coin, and a heavy black iron key.

Add any items you take to your inventory. If you
have marked on your character sheet the RedHanded trait, your hands begin to glow a bright
fiery red when you pick up the objects. The light
attracts the attention of the two nearby bandits,
who stop their arguing and turn towards you. Go to
B13.
If you decide to continue to avoid the bandits while
they argue, you are able to use the key to unlock
the Infernal War Machine and climb quietly inside
without being noticed. Go to B16.
If you, instead, greet the bandits to learn more
about where you are, go to B13.
If you would rather ambush the bandits, go to B14.

B13 - A Scorched Canyon
As soon as the two bandits see you approaching,
they drop the corpses they are dragging with a soft
thud into the red sand. Robb, the dwarf, reaches
down to draw his crossbow. “Oh ho-ho, what’ve we
got here?” he squeaks out. “See if they got any coins
on’em.”
Before you have a chance to do anything, the
muscular human bandit, Amelia, is already
stomping through the sand, a vicious-looking
serrated sword in hand. “I’m gonna carve you up
real, real pretty,” she growls with a wicked smile in
her sky-blue eyes.
Uh-oh. It doesn’t look like they want to talk.
The bandits will get to act first in the following
encounter. Go to B15.

B14 - A Scorched Canyon
You move as quietly as you can across the dune,
staying low to avoid being spotted as you try to get
a jump on the dwarf and human. Make a DC 13
Dexterity (Stealth) check, remembering to include
any penalties you may have for wearing armor.
If your check succeeds, you get to act first in the
following encounter, and you have advantage on
your first attack. Go to B15.
If your check fails, you are spotted before you can
get the jump on the bandits. Go to B13.

16

B15 - Fighting the Wasteland Bandits
Before you can investigate the Infernal War
Machine, you’ll have to survive the bandits, Robb
and Amelia. During the encounter, Robb will circle
around you, staying at a distance of 20 feet, and
fire at you with his crossbow. Amelia begins the
encounter 5 feet away from you. Amelia attacks
with her longsword and uses her shield bash as
a reaction if you attempt to move out of her melee
range. She will do everything she can to protect
Robb, and her morale will suffer if you manage to
defeat him.

Wasteland Bandit Brains, Robb

Wasteland Bandit Muscle, Amelia

Medium humanoid (dwarf), neutral evil

Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil

Armor Class 12 (padded cloth)

Armor Class 15 (half plate)

Hit Points 13 (3d8)

Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft.

Speed 25 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

8 (-1)

13 (+1)

10 (+0)

15 (+2)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

Skills History +4, Perception +3
Damage Resistances poison
Senses passive perception 13
Languages Common
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Dwarven Resilience. Robb has advantage on saving throws

against poison.

Shoot ‘Em While They’re Down. Robb does not have
disadvantage on ranged weapon attacks made against
prone creatures.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

16 (+3)

10 (+0)

12 (+1)

8 (-1)

8 (-1)

10 (+0)

Skills Athletics +5
Senses passive perception 9
Languages Common
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Poor Morale. If Amelia’s bandit ally Robb is defeated, the
creature who defeated Robb may immediately use a free
action to make a DC 10 Charisma (Intimidate) check. If the
check succeeds, Amelia is unable to attack and attempts to
flee on her turn. If the check fails, Amelia takes 1d6 psychic
damage, but will continue to fight until she is defeated.
Actions

Actions

Longsword. Melee weapon attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one

Longsword. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.

target. Hit: 3 (1d8-1) slashing damage.

Hand Crossbow. Ranged weapon attack: +3 to hit, range
30/120 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage, and
the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving
throw or be poisoned. The target can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on
itself on a success.

Shield Bash. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is
a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 13
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and have their
movement reduced to 0 until the start of their next turn.

17

If you decide to escape this encounter, you must
spend 1 point of Destiny. By some stroke of gory
luck, a fiery streak of brimstone falls from the sky,
crushing both bandits beneath it as it explodes
into the red sand. As the smoke clears, you look
down into the crater left behind to see nothing on
their person survived except for a soul coin and a
heavy black iron key. After you retrieve the items,
you can investigate the inside of the Infernal War
Machine. Go to B17.
If you manage to defeat both bandits, you will
find the following on their bodies: a soul coin, a
heavy black iron key, two longswords, a hand
crossbow, and a small vial of pulsating liquid.
Investigating the two black-robed corpses they had
been dragging reveals the dead men to have battlescarred faces and a crude skull branded into their
foreheads. The corpses have been stripped of all of
their possessions.
If you cast the Identify spell or use a Crystal of
Identify on the vial, your magic reveals it to be
a small vial of demon ichor that seems to be
unstable and temperamental, but has fuel-like
properties. Because of your deeper understanding
of the liquid’s power, you can use this item twice in
total before removing it from your character sheet.
Key in hand, you try to find your way inside the
Infernal War Machine, hoping to escape this place.
Add any items you take to your inventory, and then
go to B16.

B16 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
You jump into the Infernal War Machine and close
the door behind you, its hinges creaking with rust.
The interior of this large vehicle seems to be able to
seat up to eight individuals, and several of the seats
in the back are currently occupied by several sandblasted skeletons. You feel a cold chill run down
your spine as the wind howls hungrily outside of
the machine. The skeletons rattle a bit, and one of
their hands falls off, disappearing beneath a back
seat. If you have marked on your character sheet
the Fear of Bony Things trait, take 1d10 psychic
damage.

with golden hide, two small sets of feathery wings,
and big, white eyes that look somehow sad despite
their purity. The strange creature is flapping its four
wings, floating just above the machine’s passenger
seat, and it is blowing sparkles out of its trunk and
into your face.
As the creature stops spraying you in the face with
sparkles, you feel a wave of calm and happiness
come over you, washing away the dread you felt
before.
“Hi there! I’m Lulu, and I’m a hollyphant! At least I
think I am. A devil with six tongues told me so the
other day, right before he tried to eat me,” the small
elephant-like being blurts out, and then continues,
not slowing down until it runs out of breath. “Wow,
I’ve never seen anyone make it out of that cave
alive. You must be really special, huh? So tell me,
my new bestest special-friend, how did you get out
of there? And what’s it like inside that creepy cave
anyhow? I think I went in there once, but I can’t
remember anymore. I can’t remember lotsa things.”
Lulu’s head falls a bit at her admission, and she
blows a small, sad puff of sparkles out of her trunk.
If you tell Lulu the truth about how you got here,
go to B17.
If you lie about how you got here, make a
Charisma (Deception) check. Note the result and
go to B18.
If you try to cheer Lulu up, make a Charisma
(Persuasion) check. Note the result and go to B19.
If you respond cruelly to Lulu, go to B20.

“Don’t worry!” a sing-songy voice rings out from
beside you. “The mean bandits just kept those old
bones around for decoration. They can’t hurt you!”
You turn to look at the seat beside you and are
immediately sprayed in the face with sparkles. As
your eyes come into focus, you realize that you are
looking at a small elephant the size of a large dog,

18

B17 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
“Wow!” Lulu exclaims, pepping up immediately
when you tell her how you came to be here. “It
sounds like you’ve had some really bad luck, new
bestest special friend. You walked in on a powerful
fey creature in an intimate moment with…”
The winged elephant creature’s words trail off for
a moment and her pure white eyes begin to shake
rapidly. It’s unsettling to witness, but your new
friend calms down after a moment and continues to
speak, her tone a little more introspective now.
“You saw Zariel, the Archdevil. She rules this
place. She- she must have sent you here, thinking
you would never escape. I’m sorry to tell you this,
but you’re in Avernus, the first layer of hell. It’s
a very scary and very sad place that makes you
forget things, like how to do magic or who you are.
Sometimes, even I have trouble keeping my spirits
up here, and everyone knows that hollyphants have
the brightest spirits! We’re magical celestial beings
too, just a lot nicer than the one you met.”
Lulu settles down into the seat next to you, no
longer floating. She stares out through the window
of the infernal machine. It’s quiet for a long time,
and then Lulu whispers in her sing-songy voice.
“I think maybe I knew Zariel a long time ago. I
think she used to be my best friend in the world.
It’s hard to remember what she was like back then.
Now, she just scares me.”
Go to B21.

B18 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
If your Charisma (Deception) check was less than
15, go to B20. Otherwise, continue reading.
“Oh, wow, what a story! You should write books
about adventurers doing adventurous things, like
rescuing helpless princes and romancing enchanted
dragons!” Lulu exclaims once you finish lying
to her, the little elephant creature’s four wings
fluttering with excitement. Only a few moments
later, though, her wings stop flapping and she
settles down into the seat next to you. She stares
out through the window of the infernal machine.
It’s quiet for a long time, and then Lulu whispers in
their sing-songy voice.
“I really, really, really don’t like talking about sad
things. Hollyphants are happy magic creatures that
spread joy and fuzzy feelings wherever we go! But
I feel like I gotta tell you the truth, since you were

so honest with me. This place you’re trapped in is
called Avernus. It’s the very first layer of hell. It’s
a very scary and very sad place that makes you
forget things, like how to do magic or who you are.
Sometimes, even I have trouble keeping my spirits
up here, and everyone knows that hollyphants have
the brightest spirits!”
Go to B21.

B19 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
If the result of your ability check was less than
12, your words don’t seem to shake her from her
sudden sadness. Go to the bottom of B16 and
make a different choice to proceed.
If the result of your ability check was 13 or
higher, you are able to comfort the hollyphant.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Hollyphant Whisperer.
Lulu’s small white eyes seem to grow twice the size
they were before, and her long trunk reaches up to
gently touch the side of your face. She speaks with
a tiny voice, quivering with emotion. “Thank. You.
I really needed that. Wow! I’m so lucky that I found
you here. Please, let me give you a gift!”
The hollyphant coils her trunk up into a tight
knot on her face, flaps her wings hard, and hums
a song so loud that the entire infernal machine
begins to vibrate. The skeletons in the back seats
of the machine rattle loudly, and several more of
their limbs fall off to the floor. And then, the song
suddenly ends.
Lulu slowly uncoils her trunk and presents to you
a gift: add a multi-colored ball made of sparkles
to your inventory. She looks at you with wide eyes,
waiting to speak until after you accept her present.
“It’s a ball made out of all of my feelings about how
you are the most awesome person in all of Avernus!
When you’re feeling really super sad, or maybe even
in complete and utter despair, take it out and rub it
on your face. It’s hollyphant magic, so it’ll make you
feel better right away!”
You take the present and stow it away. As you
hold the ball in your hands, you just cannot help
yourself: you smile a big, goofy grin. You stow the
present away and look back to Lulu.
“Hmmm. Now, we were talking about something…
oh, right! How did you get outta that case,
anyhow?`` she asks, her voice bright and curious.

19

If you tell Lulu the truth about how you got here,
go to B17.
If you lie about how you got here, make a
Charisma (Deception) check. Note the result and
go to B18.
If you respond cruelly to Lulu, go to B20.

B20 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
After you respond cruelly to the winged elephant
creature, a chill immediately goes down your spine.
Lulu stops floating and flops down into the seat
next to you. She crosses her wings over her body
and narrows her white eyes at you.
“I don’t know why I bother. I guess I just thought
you had a nice face, but nooo. You’re just like
everyone else in Avernus. A big meanie!” she pouts
and blows her trunk at you, but no sparkles fly out
this time. There’s a long, awkward silence, and then
Lulu launches herself at you from the passenger
seat!
She gives you a big hug and says, rapidly, “Oh no,
I’m so so sorry! I didn’t mean it! I’m sure you’re nice
and you’re just stressed out and that makes total
sense because Avernus is a very scary place that
makes you forget things, like who you are and how
to do magic, and I didn’t mean it! I take it back!
You’re still my new bestest special friend!”
After showering you in sparkles, Lulu finally calms
down and settles back into the passenger seat as
though nothing ever happened.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Mean to Hollyphants, feel bad about yourself, and
then go to B21.

B21 - Inside the Infernal War Machine
“Okay, new friend. Here’s the good news! I just
remembered that I know a way out of Avernus. It’s
a portal that’s not too far from here at all, at the top
of this crazy-looking tower! The bad news is that it’s
really-really dangerous to get there, even in a big ol’
Infernal War Machine like this one. Thankfully for
you, I’m the best back seat driver around! I’ll teach
you how to drive this thing and help you navigate
the area!”
Lulu keeps speaking, talking so quickly that you
wish you had time to take notes. As she explains
the mechanisms of the Infernal War Machine to
you, she uses her trunk to indicate various wheels,
cranks, buttons, tubes, and other contraptions

that you will need to use to run the thing. She also
tells you that if the machine runs out of fuel, the
only way to get it started again is feeding something
called a soul coin into its furnace. She adds that
she really hopes you don’t run out of fuel.
Once you are finally able to get the vehicle up and
running, its engine begins to rumble to life with a
dark and hungry roar. The machine’s wheels begin
to turn quickly, spraying the area all around you
with flying sand. You place your hands on both of
the steering wheels, using them in conjunction to
control the vehicle’s direction as you speed away
from the haunted cave. A few short moments later,
you nearly lose control of the machine and crash,
but Lulu wraps her trunk around one of the wheels
to help you correct your course.
With your new hollyphant companion’s help, you
begin to get the hang of driving. Go to B22.

B22 - Driving the Infernal War Machine
You gain the benefit of having taken a short
rest, and can spend hit dice to restore hit points
before you continue.

Infernal War Machine and Damage
When this adventure tells you to mark damage to
your Infernal War Machine, refer to your character
sheet and any previous damage you’ve marked. If you
have already marked damage previously during the
adventure, you must spend 2 points of Destiny. If
you do not have enough Destiny points to spend, the
Infernal War Machine is destroyed.
When the Infernal War Machine is destroyed, it
explodes in a screaming ball of hellfire, killing you
instantaneously. However, though your body perishes,
your soul survives for several agonizing days, trapped
within the burning wreckage of the vehicle.

If you do not have a vial of pulsating liquid or one
that’s been identified as a vial of demon ichor,
then go to B23. Otherwise, continue reading.
Lulu’s trunk curls up when she notices the vial in
your possession. “That stuff is really gross, it’s the
insides and blood of demons! There’s a lot of demon
blood in Avernus, because demons are always
getting killed here. Y’know, ‘cause of the Blood War
between the demons and the devils! Still, their
blood can be pretty useful sometimes. If you feed
it into that tube there, you can power the engine’s
blaze-boosters to go super fast, or you can power
one of the machine’s big weapons.”

20

“In this particular machine, it looks like there’s three
main weapons. There’s the acid sprayer, that one’s
real nasty. Then there’s the harpoon chain gun,
that’s my favorite because you can do all sorts of
neat tricks with it! And then … ick. This one really
creeps me out. You know that scary wax head on
the hood of the machine? It’s called an infernal
screamer, and if you turn that crank there, there’s
a tortured soul inside that will cry out and it’s
really loud and scary and annoying. If you use that
one, pleasepleaseplease warn me first. Hollyphants
have really sensitive ears!”
After familiarizing yourself with the cranks, levers
and knobs that control the Infernal War Machine’s
special weaponry, you focus on driving and
continue through the sandy wastes towards your
next major landmark. Go to B23.

B23 - Near the Volcanic Falls
You drive for several hours through rocky
wasteland, sometimes crossing great, scorched
dunes of black sand. The relentless red of the
hellish horizon stretches out in every direction,
sometimes broken by streaks of fire falling from
the sky. There is not much to note of the landscape
here, as you follow Lulu’s directions looking for
your first major landmark. Occasionally, you pass
by large, unmarked graves full of countless, halfburied dead.
You are just starting to feel confident behind the
two wheels of your machine when you reach your
first landmark, an intimidating cliff. Glowing molten
obsidian rock flows over the cliff, falling down into
a massive lake of roiling lava below. You slow down
to take in the majesty of the site, and then you
hear an ominous sound: clink-clink-clink-CLUNK.
Suddenly, the Infernal Machine stalls.
“Oh no! I was afraid of that!” Lulu admits, suddenly
so excited and anxious that her flittering wings
cause her to float up and bump her head into the
roof of the vehicle. “This machine must be outta
fuel. Those bandits said they were looking for more
coins. If you found any scary-looking coins, it might
be a good idea to go out and check on the furnace.
If the fire’s out, throwing in one of those creepy
coins is the only way to get it started again. Don’t
worry! I’ll wait here and keep a look out.”

the volcanic falls choking you already, but you hold
onto the side of the machine and find your way to
its rear, where you find a large panel marked with
the same skull emblem you noticed on the coin you
found outside of the cave.
And as you notice the emblem, you realize that
you are already holding a soul coin in your hand,
though you don’t remember taking it out of your
belongings. The coin hums in your hand with a life
of its own.

What Are Soul Coins?
These heavy coins are made from a strange metal of
indeterminate origin that is very hot to the touch. Each
coin is inscribed with Infernal writing on one face.
If you make either a successful DC 13 Intelligence
(Arcana) or Intelligence (Religion) check, you realize
that this coin contains a soul and the story of how
its soul became trapped in Avernus. A deep sense of
anguish and longing overcomes you when you touch
the coin, as though it were somehow alive and in pain.
Despite the horror of that realization, you also feel as
though the coin also contains a sort of inherent energy
or power that could prove useful in many different
situations in, or out, of Avernus.

You open up the panel on the back of the machine
and discover the furnace is dead, just as Lulu
feared. While pondering re-igniting the furnace, you
suddenly feel a cold anxiety grow in your stomach
when you notice a large shadow appear from over
your shoulder. You spin around to see a terrifying
sight: a skeletal knight looms over you, only scraps
of ancient plate mail armor still clinging to its
brittle, blackened bones. The undead knight holds a
kite shield in one hand and a large, wicked-looking
greatsword in the other. A spectral blue fire burns
from within its armor and empty eye-sockets.
Make your choice of a DC 13 Wisdom (Insight)
check or Intelligence (Arcana) check.
If your check fails, then go to B24.
If your check succeeds, instead go to B25.

As Lulu fills the inside of the vehicle with another
rain of fuzzy-feeling sparkles, you steel yourself,
open up the driver’s side door of the machine,
and climb out into the brutal heat of the obsidian
landscape outside. You can feel the hot air from

21

B24 - Near the Volcanic Falls
If you do not have Fear of Bony Things marked
on your character sheet, go to B25. Otherwise,
continue reading.
For a moment, you are frozen in fear. Take 1d10
psychic damage.
After your initial panic, you spring into action to
defend yourself against the knight. It seems to
move slowly, the spark of unlife within it dim and
weak. You will act first in the following encounter.
The ghostly knight begins 5 feet away from you,
and its movements are are slow, monotonous, and
uninspired. It will not use any reactions, or attempt
to flee or change tactics at any point during the
encounter.
If you decide to escape this encounter, you must
spend a point of Destiny. At some point during
the fight, the skeletal knight turns away from
you, ignoring your blows, and begins to slowly
walk towards the nearby lake of lava. You watch,
confused, as the undead warrior walks into the
lava, its bones catching aflame before they melt like
wax and vanish forever.
If you defeat Sir Albin the Ghostly Knight, his
remains clatter to the obsidian shore in a mangled
heap. The only salvageable item within the remains
is an ancient greatsword, which you can add to
your inventory.
Quickly, before anything else tries to kill you, you
toss a soul coin into the dead furnace. Remove the
item from your character sheet and go to B26.

Sir Albin, the Ghostly Knight
Medium undead (specter), lawful good
Armor Class 20 (plate mail and shield)
Hit Points 22 (5d8)
Speed 0 ft., fly 20 ft. (hover)
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

14 (+2)

8 (-1)

11 (+0)

12 (+1)

16 (+3)

16 (+3)

Skills Athletics +4, Insight +7
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder;
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical
attacks
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened,
exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
prone, unconsciou
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive perception 12
Languages Common, Celestial
Challenge 1 (200 XP)

Incorporeal Movement. Sir Albin can move through other
creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. He
takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an
object.
Great Swordsman. Sir Albin can wield a greatsword in one

hand.

Actions

Ancient Greatsword. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach
5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) slashing damage.

22

B25 - Near the Volcanic Falls

B27 - Near the Volcanic Falls

When the skeletal knight looming before you does
not raise its massive sword to attack, you get the
feeling that it somehow does not mean you any
harm. Slowly, the spectral light brightens beneath
the undead creature’s half-shattered helm. A
ghostly face appears, translucent over the skull.
The ghost’s face is that of a tired old man’s, with
sad eyes that seem to stare down, deep into your
soul.

After you hear the ghostly knight’s warning, you
see a spray of sparkles rain down from above you
and instantly feel a little bit better. “Sir Albin!” Lulu
proclaims from above you, where she flies in excited
loops over the Infernal War Machine. “I remember
you. It’s me, Lulu!”

The wind howls, kicking up obsidian rock and
carrying on it the dead knight’s voice. The ghost
speaks to you in a gentle tenor that sometimes
quivers with some ancient regret.
“Wh-why, you! Y-y-you are not like the others. You
have not yet been … corrupted by this place. Ohh,
young one, wh-what a pity! What a pity that you
have come here, to Avernus. Do not let this place
change you! N-not like it changed her, and so many
brave people. Ohh, what … a pity.”
If you have marked on your character sheet the
Hollyphant Whisperer trait, then go to B27.
Otherwise, the ghostly knight begins to mumble to
himself as the howling wind dies down. He turns
and slowly wanders off towards a distant sand
dune, no longer seeming to see or respond to you.
Left alone with nothing else to do here, you quickly
throw a soul coin into the machine’s furnace and
wait to see what happens. Remove the item from
your character sheet and go to B26.

B26 - Near the Volcanic Falls
You hear the long, anguished, piercing scream
of a tortured soul as the Infernal War Machine’s
furnace ignites with a hellish blaze. As the soul coin
trapped inside begins to burn, you grimace with
the realization that it isn’t the metal of the coin
that fuels the machine, but the captured soul of a
once living person. Note the following trait on your
character sheet: Soul Sacrificer.
Quickly, you shut the panel to the furnace and
jump back into the machine. In the passenger seat,
Lulu looks downtrodden as she stares off into the
distance. “Avernus is a terrible place. It makes
people do very bad things. But you can still escape!
You have to,” she whispers, meaningfully. Hoping
to do just that, you grab both wheels of the vehicle
and speed away from the Volcanic Falls, leaving the
skeletal knight and the steaming lake of liquid rock
behind you. Go to B29.

The ghostly knight looks up slowly, his old bones
creaking beneath sandblasted armor. “Lulu.
Y-y-yes. I remember you. Zariel’s courageous
warmount. Sh-she … you were her best friend. I
always liked you. Al-always made me feel like there
was still hope, even here.” The ghost’s voice is
distant and sad, but curious too. “How have you not
been corrupted by this place, after all this time?”
Lulu floats down to perch with her tiny elephantine
legs over the back of the vehicle’s roof. She answers
the question thoughtfully, her earnest voice ringing
out over the roar of the volcanic falls nearby.
“I think maybe hollyphants can’t be corrupted,
Sir. At least not the same way angels and other
creatures can be. But there’s an awful lot that I
can’t remember anymore. Like why I can’t grow into
a great big powerful warmount or what happened
to my magic. I used to know all sorts of wonderful
spells!”
The wind howls again, and the ghost speaks to Lulu
through it. “Beware, m-my gentle friend. The River
Styx! Many drink from its waters, so thirsty, but
they forget a part of themselves each time.”
“Oh! I think maybe I do remember drinking from
a big river. The water tasted so, so sweet,” Lulu
muses thoughtfully, scrunching her face adorably
as she tries to recall a memory that seems to slip
through her grasp.
“P-please, adventurer,” Sir Albin the skeletal
knight croaks as he turns back to you. “Help Lulu
remember. A-and do not let her drink from the dark
river… if anyone can reach Zariel and make things
right, it is Lulu. Th-they were such good friends.
A-and I still believe … the Archdevil … can be
saved. It is never too late for redemption.”
If you promise to help Lulu remember her past,
note the following trait on your character sheet:
Oathbound. Whether you promise or not, go to
B28.

23

B28 - Near the Volcanic Falls
“Say, Sir Albin!” Lulu interrupts energetically. “I am
trying to help this really cool and brave adventurer
here escape Avernus, and prove once-and-forall that anything is possible with the power of
friendship! Have you seen anything scary on the
road ahead that we should know about?”
The ghostly knight shakes his head very slowly, and
his old spectral face grows even sadder than before.
“N-No,” he whispers on the wind. “I have been stuck
here for a long, loooong time. This is where I died,
c-cut down by my general, Zariel. With my dying
breath, I forgave her for falling from her path. B-but
my forgiveness only seemed to anger her even more!
So Zariel cursed me so that I can never leave this
place of my own free will. It is … very lonely, here.”
“I wish there was something we could do for poor
Sir Albin,” Lulu says to you, with worry in her eyes.
“P-perhaps. Perhaps there is a way out for me. It
would be painful, but when it is done, at least I
would finally be free,” Sir Albin suggests as the
undead knight kneels down next to you and the
Infernal War Machine’s open panel. He stares with
phantom eyes into the machine’s dead furnace.
“Y-you will need this machine to escape Avernus,
young one. But to fuel these machines, you must
feed them souls! L-let my soul help you escape,
help do one last good deed. It would be my honor.”
“No!” Lulu protests, launching herself at Sir Albin
to attempt to wrap him up in a tiny hug. The
hollyphant bounces off of the old knight’s armor
and falls dazed to the rocky ground.
“Yes, my old friend. Go and learn of your past, who
you really are. Help this adventurer. You will need
a soul to feed the machine. At least, if it is my soul,
it was my choice,” Sir Albin says proudly, seeming
more steadfast than he has since you first met him.
Lulu stares back at him, heartbroken.
If you refuse to allow Sir Albin to sacrifice himself,
and instead throw a soul coin into the furnace,
remove the item from your sheet. The ghostly knight
looks at you, grief struck by your decision, and
then turns to silently shamble away, mumbling to
himself about redemption. Go to B26.
If you agree to allow Sir Albin to sacrifice himself,
he gives you his holy weapon, an ancient
greatsword, and tells you to wield it honorably
or find it another who will. Add the item to your
inventory.

The ghost then gently asks that both you and Lulu
get back into the vehicle and shut the door. You
realize, sadly, that he does not want you to see the
fate that awaits him. Even from within the vehicle,
though, you can still hear Albin’s occasional
screams while you drive, as his soul burns in your
vehicle’s furnace. Go to B29.

B29 - At a Fork in the Road
You gain the benefit of having taken a short
rest, and can spend hit dice to restore hit
points before you continue. If you have in your
possession an ancient greatsword, lose 1 point of
Destiny. You gain a +1 bonus to your attack and
damage rolls with the greatsword, but every time
you hold it or attack with it, you feel the pang of
unrequited love, and unresolved grief. It counts as a
magical weapon.
You drive for a while longer, through winding black
obsidian roads that cut between bleak mountains.
The memories of the skeletal knight still cling to
you, making you feel uneasy. Allowing yourself to
become distracted, you don’t spot a fork in the road
ahead until you are nearly upon it.
Lulu slings her trunk across your chest like a seat
belt. “Whoa, slow down!” she squeaks out. With a
squeal of smoking tires, the Infernal War Machine
rolls to a halt a few feet back from the intersection.
Lulu lets you go and gestures with her trunk
between the left, downward-sloping path, and the
right pass that climbs up towards a higher plateau.
“We’re almost through these mountains! We just
gotta pick our path out. The left path goes through
some really dark and creepy caves full of all sorts
of nasty critters. It’s like a maze down there! The
right path leads up to a pass near the top of the
mountain, it’s sort of a short cut! But for some
reason, those fireballs that fall outta the sky really
like to land there. If you go that way, you’re gonna
have a real need for speed, or we’ll be doomed!”
Lulu continues, talking faster and faster the more
excited she gets. “Either path should get us to the
Ashen Plain. We just gotta cross those plains and
get to the really BIG river that runs through most
of Avernus. Just past the river is the Tower with the
portal back to your world. It’s just that easy! But
also, it’s really super-duper dangerous.”

24

If you turn left and drive down into the dark and
cavernous tunnels, go to B30.
If you turn right try to cross the exposed alley, go
to B50.

B30 - Within a Maze of Tunnels
You roll into a series of twisting tunnels that
quickly descend deep into the side of the mountain.
Only the glow of weird phosphorus plants and
insects provides light here, making it very difficult
and slow to navigate. Several times you reach a dead
end and must reverse your vehicle to find another
path forward.
Make a DC 14 Wisdom (Survival) check.
If your check fails, go to B31. Otherwise,
continue reading.
You proceed very carefully, being sure not to let
yourself get lost as you explore the empty obsidian
caverns. At last you reach a junction that splits off
into two larger and less claustrophobic tunnels. The
tunnel to the left glows with a hint of distant red
light, while a brighter, eerie green light spills out
from further down the tunnel straight ahead of you.
If you follow the faint red light and take the left
tunnel, go to B37.
If you follow the brighter green light and continue
driving straight, go to B38.

deep underground begins to get to you, and it’s
in a moment of anger that you smash the front of
your Infernal War Machine into an obsidian tunnel
wall. Your head slams forward, smashing into
one of the vehicle’s two steering wheels. Take 1d6
bludgeoning damage.
When you try to move the machine in reverse, your
back wheels begin to spin without gaining any
traction. You are stuck.
If you get out of the vehicle and try to push the
machine free, go to B32.
If you have a vial of pulsating liquid or a vial of
demon ichor, and want to try to free yourself using
the Infernal War Machine’s blaze-boosters, then
remove the vial from your character sheet and go to
B35.

B32 - Between a Rock and a Hard Place
You get out of the vehicle and begin to push against
its hood, hoping to roll its rear tires back over the
rocks they are stuck between. You put all of your
strength into the push, heaving.
Finally, you manage to get the vehicle free of debris.
Sweat pours off of your temple and you double
over to catch your breath. When you look up again,
you see four small reptilian creatures staring at
you with wild, manic eyes. Each of them wields a
jagged spear in one hand and a torch in their other.
Kobolds!

B31 - Between a Rock and a Hard Place

Make a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check.

Despite your best efforts, you become more and
more confused with every dead end and backtrack
you’re forced to take. The frustration of being lost

If your check succeeds, you manage to free your
Infernal War Machine before the kobolds could
surround you. If you would like to attack the
kobolds, you will automatically get to act first in
initiative. Go to B33.
If you want to try to escape and drive away, make a
DC 13 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to avoid being
surrounded.
If your check succeeds, go to B34.
Otherwise, continue reading on the next page.
You trip over a nearly invisible wire tied between
two stalagmites, and fall crashing to the cold, stony
ground. The kobolds immediately jump to attack
you. They will get to act first in the encounter, and
you begin the encounter knocked prone. Go to
B33.

25

B33 - Ambushed By Kobolds!

Kobold Tunnel-Dweller

Kobolds are cowardly, if sometimes surprisingly
clever creatures. Without the advantage of numbers
against their prey, they are likely to run from most
encounters. Each of the four kobold tunneldwellers begin the encounter 10 feet away from
you, surrounding you from all sides. They use
their torches to keep you distracted and confused,
and once one of them hits you with a torch attack
on their turn, the rest take turns stabbing you with
their spears until the start of your next turn. If you
manage to defeat two of the kobolds, the other two
will run away using the dash action on their next
turn, escaping into the tunnels unless you stop
them.

Medium humanoid (kobold), lawful evil

Because you are surrounded, you cannot spend
Destiny points to escape this encounter, though
you can still spend Destiny points to survive and
heal from damage that would otherwise reduce your
hit points to 0.
If you survive the kobold attack, you may search
their remains, but will find little of value to add to
your inventory. Each kobold has a crude spear and
a torch. If you managed to defeat at least three of
the four kobolds, you also find a bag of salt.
The tunnels are quiet again after the ambush.

Armor Class 13
Hit Points 5 (2d6-2)
Speed 30 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

8 (-1)

16 (+3)

8 (-1)

8 (-1)

6 (-2)

8 (-1)

Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 8
Languages Common, Draconic
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)

Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the kobold has
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack roll
against a creature if at least one of the kobold’s allies is
within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.
Actions

Crude Spear. Melee or Ranged weapon attack: +1 to hit,
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d6-1)
piercing damage.
Torch. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one
target. Hit: 1 fire damage and the target has disadvantage
on all attack rolls and ability checks until the end of their
next turn.

26

Wiping kobold guts off of your equipment, you hop
back into your Infernal War Machine. “Oh dear, that
was a close one. Too close,” Lulu says, giving you a
hug with her tiny elephantine arms and long trunk
once she sees that you are okay.

Ahead of you in the tunnel, you see four small
reptilian creatures wielding torches in one hand
and jagged spears in the other. Kobolds!

A short drive later, you find your way back to
a more familiar series of obsidian caverns. You
eventually reach a junction that splits off into two
larger and less claustrophobic tunnels. The tunnel
to the left shows signs of a distant red light, while
a brighter, eerie green light spills out from further
down the tunnel straight ahead of you.

If your saving throw succeeds, you are able to
avoid running over the kobolds, and quickly speed
past as they wave their torches at you and shriek
out in anger at your escape. Go to B36.

If you follow the faint red light and take the left
tunnel, go to B37.
If you follow the brighter green light and continue
driving straight, go to B38.

B34 - Between a Rock and a Hard Place
You dodge the approaching kobolds before they can
surround you, at the last minute, jumping over a
tripwire tied between two stalagmites that you had
nearly missed. With no time to lose, you quickly reenter your vehicle and shut the door. As you drive
away, your Infernal War Machine rocks upwards
with a gross squishing sound of a kobold being run
over. A moment later, a mess of reptilian innards
spray upwards, painting the driver’s side window.
A short time later, you find your way back to a more
familiar series of obsidian caverns. You eventually
reach a junction that splits off into two larger and
less claustrophobic tunnels. The tunnel to the left
shows signs of a distant red light, while a brighter,
eerie green light spills out from further down the
tunnel straight ahead of you.
If you follow the faint red light and take the left
tunnel, go to B37.
If you follow the brighter green light and continue
driving straight, go to B38.

B35 - Between a Rock and a Hard Place
You pour the pulsating ichor from your vial into
the tube that Lulu showed you. At your side, a
big red button begins to glow with a beckoning
light. You grit your teeth and press the big red
button; suddenly, the Infernal War Machine’s
blaze-boosters ignite and the vehicle explodes
backwards, freeing itself and smashing into the
opposite wall. Gripping tightly onto the handle of
both wheels, you struggle to control the vehicle for
only a moment, before you rocket away from the
dead-end.

Make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw.

If your saving throw fails, it’s too late for you
to dodge with the Infernal War Machine’s blazeboosters propelling you forward at such a reckless
speed. The vehicle squishes all four of the kobolds,
crunching their bones, and bouncing forward.
Unfortunately, one of the kobold’s remains gets
caught up in one of your vehicle’s wheel axles,
making it harder to steer. Mark damage to your
Infernal War Machine, and then go to B36.

B36 - Within a Maze of Tunnels
A short time after escaping the kobolds, you find
your way back to a more familiar series of obsidian
caverns. You eventually reach a junction that splits
off into two larger and less claustrophobic tunnels.
The tunnel to the left shows signs of a distant red
light, while a brighter, eerie green light spills out
from further down the tunnel straight ahead of you.
If you follow the faint red light and take the left
tunnel, go to B37.
If you follow the brighter green light and continue
driving straight, go to B38.

B37 - An Exit
The leftward tunnel is wide, but with a very low
ceiling, and the Infernal War Machine barely
manages to avoid getting stuck as you drive. After a
few minutes, the tunnel begins to spiral and climb
through the mountain side. It continues to climb
until you can finally see the source of the tunnel’s
distant red glow: ahead of you lies an exit out of the
maze and back into the crimson-skied wasteland of
Avernus.
“Hold onto your seat, friend-o! Here. We. Goooo!”
Lulu cries out as your vehicle launches out of a
hole in the mountain. You and the machine fly
through the air, hanging for several seconds, before
you land hard and roll several times. Thankfully,
the vehicle is upright when it stops rolling. Dazed
and looking around, you realize that you are in a
long corridor exposed to the elements. All around

27

you, fireballs fall from the sky, exploding against
the mountainside and leaving smoking craters on
the ground where they strike.
“Uh oh!” the hollyphant says with a gasp. “We
somehow ended up half-way through Fireball Alley!
You’d better floor it or we’ll never make it out of
here!”
The Infernal War Machine rocks as a fireball lands
just a few feet away from it. The engine starts with
a scream and you speed off, hoping to drive across
Fireball Alley before you are cooked alive inside your
vehicle.
Go to B51.

B38 - In a Green, Glowing Cavern
You take the straight path at the turn, and find
yourself in a wide open cavern with strange,
disturbing images painted onto walls lit by the
cavern’s eerie green glow. The paintings depict
souls with twisted expressions, burning in fire,
and humanoids being sacrificed to great demonic
beings. Make a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception)
check.
If your check fails, you are too late to notice that
the floor gives way to a great chasm just a few yards
into this cavern! The Infernal War Machine goes
flying over the chasm at a high speed, and you
aren’t sure if you’ll be able to land on the other side
safely. Go to B39.
If your check succeeds, you notice before it’s too
late that the tunnel floor disappears just ahead of
you, opening up into a great chasm that seems to
be the source of green light in this area.
If you turn around to avoid the chasm and take the
other path, go to B37.
If you speed up to try to jump the chasm, go to
B40.
If you stop the vehicle to investigate the chasm, go
to B42.

B39 - Flying Over a Chasm
As your vehicle flies over the chasm, you can see
a bizarre, gigantic monstrosity some hundred feet
down down in the chasm, clinging to its walls. The
thing’s flesh is purple and covered in green slime
that glows with an alien light. Its form is covered

in a million cat-like eyes that all seem to stare up
at you. Stretching and squirming out of oozing
pustules, you see more tentacles than you can
count, each of them a messy pulp that reaches
up to grasp at the Infernal War Machine as it falls
through the air.
Make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw.
If your saving throw fails, then go to B43.
If your saving throw succeeds, you manage to
keep hold of the wheels and guide the vehicle as
it lands on the other side of the chasm, narrowly
avoiding the creature’s humongous, writhing
tentacles. You speed away from the chasm, your
heart pounding, the image of the abomination
burned into your mind. Make a DC 16 Charisma
saving throw. If your saving throw fails, take 1d10
psychic damage.
After you escape the chasm, it isn’t long before you
see red light and black sand up ahead through an
opening in the mountain. Finally, you escape the
underground maze in your vehicle, and drive out
into the ashen plains that wait beyond. Go to B64.

B40 - Preparing to Jump Over a Chasm
Without much time to think, you must quickly
decide how to jump the chasm and land on the
cavern floor on the other side. If you have any liquid
remaining in a vial of pulsating liquid or a vial of
demon ichor, you may use it to ignite the Infernal
War Machine’s blaze-boosters to give you more
speed before the jump.
If you try to make the jump with the help of the
vehicle’s boosters, remove the vial from your
character sheet and go to B41.
If you try to make the jump without the help of
boosters, go to B39.

B41 - Flying Over a Chasm
You pour the pulsating ichor from your vial into
the tube that Lulu showed you. At your side, a big
red button begins to glow with a beckoning light.
You press the big red button and the Infernal War
Machine’s blaze-boosters explode with fiery life a
few moments before your vehicle goes flying over the
edge of the chasm.
As your vehicle flies over the chasm, you can see
a bizarre, gigantic monstrosity some hundred feet

28

down down in the chasm, clinging to its walls. The
thing’s flesh is purple and covered in green slime
that glows with an alien light. Its form is covered
in a million cat-like eyes that all seem to stare up
at you. Stretching and squirming out of oozing
pustules, you see more tentacles than you can
count, each of them a messy pulp that reaches
up to grasp at the Infernal War Machine as it falls
through the air.
However, you manage to keep hold of the wheels
and guide the vehicle as it lands on the other side
of the chasm, narrowly avoiding the creature’s
humongous, writhing tentacles. You speed away
from the chasm, your heart pounding, the image
of the abomination burned into your mind. Make
a DC 16 Charisma saving throw. If your saving
throw fails, take 1d10 psychic damage.
After you escape the chasm, it isn’t long before you
see red light and black sand up ahead through an
opening in the mountain. Finally, you escape the
underground maze in your vehicle, and drive out
into the ashen plains that wait beyond. Go to B64.

B42 - At the Edge of a Chasm
You slow down and turn your vehicle to the side,
so that you can look out through the driver side
window at the glowing chasm below. Your heart
nearly stops at the sight.
Below, you see a bizarre, gigantic monstrosity some
hundred feet down down in the chasm, clinging to
its walls. The thing’s flesh is purple and covered in
green slime that glows with an alien light. Its form
is covered in a million cat-like eyes that all seem to
stare up at you. Stretching and squirming out of
oozing pustules, you see more tentacles than you
can count, each of them a messy pulp that reaches
up to grasp at the Infernal War Machine!

B43 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination
Mark damage to your Infernal War Machine.
The many-tentacled thing in the chasm pulls your
vehicle down into the chasm, causing Lulu to go
flying into the back seat with a series of ‘oomphs’!
You watch in horror as the slimy form of the
great beast beneath you rips itself open, exposing
hundreds of gigantic lipless mouths with gnashing
teeth. You feel your entire body lock up, too afraid
to act, too afraid to think!
And then you hear a sound from behind you call
out, determined and kind. “You can do this, my
new special friend! You just have to believe in
yourself!” Lulu encourages you, before she trumpets
her elephantine trunk. A moment later, the entire
interior of the Infernal War Machine is filled with
sparkles and you feel some of your panic subside.
As the vehicle is pulled deeper into the chasm,
you know that you have only a moment to act. You
scramble through your possessions, looking for
anything useful that you can use.
If you want to use a vial of pulsating liquid or
a vial of demon ichor, you can try to aim your
harpoon chain gun out of the chasm. Remove the
vial from your character sheet and go to B44.
If you want to use a Javelin of Lightning, then go
to B45.
If you want to cast a spell, note which spell you are
casting, and then go to B46.
If you cannot do any of the above, then go to B47.

You try quickly to get the machine moving to
escape the writhing tentacles, but you cannot gain
enough momentum. After a few violent seconds
of struggling, a slimy tendril wraps around your
vehicle, pulling it -- and you -- over the chasm! Go
to B43.

29

B44 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination

B45 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination

You pour liquid from your vial into a funnel and
immediately a panel opens up above you and
hydraulics beneath your driver seat force you to rise
up out of the Infernal War Machine. You grip hold
of the harpoon gun on top of the vehicle and begin
to aim it, spinning in dizzying circles as the great
abomination pulls you ever close to its gnashing
mouths. You can feel the power of the demon ichor
pulsing in the black metal of the harpoon gun, and
its large trigger is vibrating as you hold it.

You grab the bent copper javelin that you took from
the tomb you appeared in when you first came to
Avernus. You open the driver’s side door of the
Infernal War Machine and the awful stench of the
abomination below strikes you like a blow. Make
a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 2d6
poison damage on a failed saving throw, and half
as much damage on a successful one.

You know that you will only have one shot at this.
Make a ranged attack and add your Dexterity
modifier.
If your attack roll is less than a 10, then the shot
goes astray and the harpoon bounces off of the
cavern wall. Go to B47.
If your attack succeeds, continue reading.
You pull the trigger tightly and the harpoon
gun launches up into the air and penetrates a
tunnel wall in the distance, beyond the chasm.
Immediately, your chair sinks back down inside the
vehicle below and the secret panel closes above you.
The enchanted black iron chain that connects
the vehicle to the harpoon begins to glow with a
hellishly red light. The chain cranks and groans,
struggling against the might of the beast below. At
last, just feet above the many-tentacled thing, the
harpoon gun proves stronger than the grasping
tentacle and you go flying upwards and away from
the abomination, crashing into a tunnel wall. Take
1d10 psychic damage and 1d10 bludgeoning
damage, and then mark damage to your Infernal
War Machine.
Checking over your possessions for a brief moment,
you find that the flagon of mystery liquid given to
you by Shandalar has spilled its contents all over
the inside of your pack during the crash; remove
the item from your inventory. Right now, at least,
you have bigger things to worry about than the
wizard Shandalar.
After you and Lulu finally gather yourselves and get
moving again, you leave the horrors of the cavern
behind. It isn’t long until you finally escape the
maze of tunnels and drive out, battered and worsefor-wear, into the ashen fields and open air beyond.
Go to B64.

Holding your breath to keep yourself from retching,
you lean out from the car, javelin in hand, staring
down at the terrible thing below. This all feels like
a really bad idea, but you remember Lulu’s words.
Knowing that at least one person in hell believes in
you, you pull your throwing arm back and unleash
the javelin even as you bellow out the word, “Leiptr!”
As the javelin flies down at the creature below, an
arc of blue electricity encompasses it. The rumble
of thunder echoes throughout the chasm and
a brilliant blast of lightning shoots downward,
striking the many-tentacled thing. A piercing
scream echoes from inside your mind, the pained
scream of the beast. You shut the door and fasten
yourself back into the vehicle, a moment before
the monster throws the Infernal War Machine
powerfully out of the chasm.
You tumble through the air and strike a wall on the
other side of the chasm with an incredible amount
of force. Take 1d10 psychic damage and 1d10
bludgeoning damage, and then mark damage to
your Infernal War Machine.
Checking over your possessions for a brief moment,
you find that the flagon of mystery liquid given to
you by Shandalar has spilled its contents all over
the inside of your pack during the crash; remove
the item from your inventory. Right now, at least,
you have bigger things to worry about than the
wizard Shandalar.
After you and Lulu finally gather yourselves and get
the Infernal War Machine moving again, you leave
the horrors of the cavern behind. It isn’t long until
you finally escape the maze of tunnels and drive
out, battered and worse-for-wear, into the ashen
fields and open air beyond. Remove the Javelin
of Lightning from your inventory, and then go to
B64.

30

B46 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination
If you chose to cast a spell to damage the manytentacled thing, it is so large that you are able to
strike it with your attack without needing to make
an attack roll. Roll your spell’s damage and go to
B48.
Alternatively, you might have chosen to cast one
of the following spells, or a similar spell, to try
to distract, confuse, or escape the abomination:
Command, Entangle, Grease, Hideous Laughter,
Sanctuary, Shield, or Shield of Faith. If you cast
one of the spells listed above, make your choice
of either an Intelligence (Arcana) check or an
Intelligence (Religion) check, then go to B48.
If you chose to cast a different spell, go to B47.

B47 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination
Spend 2 points of Destiny. If you are unable to
spend enough Destiny points, then go to B49.
Otherwise, continue reading.
“Don’t worry, friend! I’ll save us!” Lulu the
hollyphant declares bravely before she kicks open
the passenger side door and flies out of the Infernal
War Machine before you have a chance to stop her.
You scramble into the passenger seat to look out
the open door for where she went.
Down below, Lulu flies, nimbly barrel-rolling
between a dozen writhing tentacles that reach for
her. She blows her trunk with a trumpeting sound,
and showers a blast of rainbow-colored sparkles
down into the maw of the abomination, which
seems to only anger it even further. You watch in
horror as it lashes out with one of its tentacles and
strikes Lulu in her floppy-eared head, knocking her
viciously into a cavern wall. A moment later, Lulu
tumbles, dazed, down into the abyss below and out
of sight.
And then the many-tentacled thing pulls your
vehicle down deeper into the chasm. Helpless to
save yourself, you are close enough to the terrible
beast now that you can see that hives of maggots
and worms with humanoid arms crawl in and out
of the cavities in its million teeth. The stench and
sight is so terrible that you hold your breath and
shut your eyes tightly, but you can still see the
maddening insects. Take 2d10 psychic damage.

Just before you are devoured, you hear a surprising
sound: the trumpeting of Lulu’s trunk resounds
deep in the chasm. Beneath you, the abomination
sneezes, the sound something like a glacier
shattering. A moment later, you feel yourself flying
through the air as the creature launches you and
the Infernal War Machine out of the chasm, sending
the vehicle crashing into an unyielding wall of
stone! Take 1d10 bludgeoning damage.
It takes you several long minutes to recover from
the crash, but you are finally roused from your
semi-conscious state by Lulu kindly nuzzling your
cheek with her trunk. “Don’t worry! It’s gonna be
okay. I promise. But phew, that was a close one,
wasn’t it?” she says in her sing-songy voice.
Checking over your possessions for a brief moment,
you find that the flagon of mystery liquid given to
you by Shandalar has spilled its contents all over
the inside of your pack during the crash; remove
the item from your inventory. Right now, at least,
you have bigger things to worry about than the
wizard Shandalar.
After you and Lulu finally gather yourselves and get
the Infernal War Machine moving again, you leave
the horrors of the cavern behind. It isn’t long until
you finally escape the maze of tunnels and drive
out, battered and worse-for-wear, into the ashen
fields and open air beyond. Go to B64.

B48 - In the Grasp of a Writhing
Abomination
If you cast a spell that dealt less than 12 damage,
or if the result of your ability check was less
than 15, then you are unable to save yourself with
your magic. Go to B47.
Otherwise, continue reading.
Surprised by your magic, the many-tentacled thing
stops pulling you closer to its gnashing mouths.
Instead, it throws you and the Infernal War Machine
out of the chasm with incredible force. Unless you
can cast the Feather Fall spell, the vehicle slams
forcefully up against a tunnel wall on the other side
of the chasm; take 1d10 bludgeoning damage and
mark damage to your Infernal War Machine. In
either case, the horror of what you have witnessed
takes a deep toll on your sentient mind; take 1d10
psychic damage,
Checking over your possessions for a brief moment,
you find that the flagon of mystery liquid given to
you by Shandalar has spilled its contents all over

31

the inside of your pack during the crash; remove
the item from your inventory. Right now, at least,
you have bigger things to worry about than the
wizard Shandalar.
After you and Lulu finally gather yourselves and get
the Infernal War Machine moving again, you leave
the horrors of the cavern behind. It isn’t long until
you finally escape the maze of tunnels and drive
out, battered and worse-for-wear, into the ashen
fields and open air beyond. Go to B64.

B49 - Food for the Many-Tentacled Thing
You are exhausted, and so are your options. The
green glow emanating from the slime-covered manytentacled-thing suddenly snuffs out, and you are
cast into complete magical darkness. You begin to
hear a hungry howl from just outside of the Infernal
War Machine. Soon after, another howl pierces
the air, and then another, until a chorus of mad
howling drowns out everything else. You feel the
metal body of your vehicle rip open like a sardine
can, followed by the sensation of burning tentacles
invading you from every imaginable angle.
Finally, when the pain becomes so great that your
mind can no longer register it, the many mouths of
the abomination stop howling. In the dark, alone,
your last moments before you are devoured are
filled with the sounds of your own insane laughter.
You are dead.

B50 - Approaching Fireball Alley
You drive right at the fork and climb up into a
long, wide corridor peaked at both sides by steep
mountain walls.
“Alright, friendo! This is Fireball Alley. For some
reason, a lot of those streaks of fire that shoot
across the sky in Avernus land in this corridor,
so be careful!” Lulu warns you, and you can
immediately see that she is telling the truth. Ahead
of you, the scorched road is full of smoking craters,
and it’s only a few seconds after starting down the
alley that you see two balls of fire explode against
the mountainside ahead of you.
You grit your teeth and speed up, determined to
escape Fireball Alley without being cooked alive in
your Infernal War Machine. Go to B51.

B51 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
“Look out!” Lulu cries, then trumpets her
elephantine trunk. You look up through your front
window and see a blazing streak crashing through
the sky directly towards you.
With only a few moments to think, you realize that
you will need to swerve around a crater to your left,
without crashing, to avoid the fireball. Make a DC
12 Dexterity saving throw.
If your saving throw fails, the fireball explodes
next to your vehicle, melting metal and blasting
you with an intense heat; take 2d6 fire damage,
and if you take 10 or more fire damage, also mark
damage to your Infernal War Machine. Otherwise,
you are able to barely dodge the fireball and
continue speeding down Fireball Alley.
Suddenly, through the sound of your engine
screaming, you hear a high-pitched, scratchy,
hungry, feminine cackle. A magically projected voice
echoes through Fireball Alley, shrill and terrible.
You look through your rear window for a moment,
and you see multiple vehicles speeding up in
pursuit of yours. Several two-wheeled war machines
with large, spiked wheels are being driven by old,
tiny figures that look like gnomes wearing bright
red rags and pointed caps. The fey creatures have
hunched backs, wiry muscles, leathery skin and
wicked grins that show off their sharp teeth.
The little monsters’ two-wheeled vehicles flank a
much larger war machine, larger than even yours,
sporting several towering structures that appear
to be arcane turrets manned by more of those fey

32

creatures. The giant machine’s tail sports a long
beam thrust upwards into the air, attached to a
thick chain and a wrecking ball that swings wildly
behind the vehicle as it speeds through Fireball
Alley.

If you want to try to ram your vehicle into the
redcap on your right, make your choice of either
a Dexterity (Sleight-of-Hand) check or an
Intelligence (Arcana) check, note the result, and
then go to B54.

“Uhoh,” Lulu whispers, sounding a little scared.
“That’s Mad Maggie and her gang of redcaps, one
of the meanest, most nefarious warlords in all of
Avernus!” Your hollyphant friend points with her
trunk to a figure standing atop the hood of the
massive war machine behind you, and you realize
that the figure must be Mad Maggie. She is a blueskinned hag with a pair of small wings and long,
taloned fingers. She wears a pair of metal goggles
on her forehead and a sandy leather dress that
appears to be hand-sewn, decorated by teeth of
various sizes and skulls belonging to strange races
that you do not recognize.

If you want to use a Javelin of Lightning, you will
have to open the driver’s side door and throw it at
redcap to your vehicle’s left. Go to B55.

“Get that war machine, my pretty little children!”
Mad Maggie points a shriveled finger towards your
vehicle and cries out in a shrill and terrible voice
that seems to project itself magically across the
mountain corridor. “Make them boom! Pop! Bang!
Whoever brings Mama Maggie the prettiest piece of
scrap will get twice as much dessert tonight!”
Two of the bicycle-like war machines break
away from the others and begin to gain on you,
attempting to flank you from both sides. Go to B52.

B52 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
A fireball explodes against the mountainside to
your right, sending a shower of sparks and stones
into your path. You maneuver deftly around the
rubble, but before you can recover entirely, you find
yourself flanked by the two cycle-machines being
ridden by a pair of evil-looking redcaps. The redcap
to the left of your vehicle pulls out a small, round
handheld device and pushes a button on it that
causes sparks to begin to dance across its surface.
Meanwhile, the redcap to the right of your vehicle
nearest to Lulu and the passenger side door laughs
madly, then withdraws a wand from within its
rags and aims it down at one of your Infernal War
Machine’s front wheels.
If you want to try to ram your vehicle into the
redcap on your left, make your choice of either
a Dexterity (Sleight-of-Hand) check or an
Intelligence (Arcana) check, note the result, and
then go to B53.

B53 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
You manage to ram into the redcap holding the
handheld device. The cycle-machine flips with the
impact, sending the fey creature flying over its
handlebars and exploding head first into the side of
the mountain with deadly impact.
If the result of your ability check was 13 or
higher, you manage to keep control of your vehicle
after the impact. The redcap rider to your right
fires a bolt of fire at the wheel of your Infernal War
Machine, but misses. A moment later, not looking
where it is going, the second redcap drives directly
into the path of a falling fireball. You look through
your rear window to see that nothing remains of the
creature, but yet another smoking hole in the road.
If the result of your ability check was less
than 13, you lose control of your vehicle for a few
dangerous seconds after the impact. The redcap
rider to your right fires a bolt of fire at the wheel of
your Infernal War Machine, striking true. You can
hear the painful screeching of your broken tire, as
what’s left of it fails to get traction on the road. A
moment later, the wand-wielding redcap is caught
unaware by a ball of fire falling from the sky; both
the redcap and its vehicle are instantly incinerated.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Driving on a Flat Tire.
Several other cycle-machines and their riders break
off from Mad Maggie’s squad, racing to catch up
with you. Go to B56.

B54 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
You manage to ram into the redcap holding the
wand. The cycle-machine flips with the impact,
sending the fey creature flying over its handlebars
and exploding head first into the side of the
mountain with deadly impact.
If the result of your ability check was 13
or higher, you manage to keep control of your
vehicle after the impact. The redcap rider to your
left throws his glowing handheld device at your

33

Infernal War Machine, but it misses its mark
and detonates with a shower of harmless sparks
behind your vehicle. A moment later, not looking
where it is going, the second redcap drives directly
into a smoking crater, crashing into a hole in the
mountain. You look through your rear window
to see the wounded fey creature crawl up out of
the crater without its vehicle, before collapsing
exhaustedly on the road.
If the result of your ability check was less
than 13, you lose control of your vehicle for a few
dangerous seconds after the impact. The redcap
rider to your right throws its handheld device
at your Infernal War Machine, and it detonates
with a shower of sparks that send painful jolts
of electricity through yours and Lulu’s bodies.
Take 2d6 lightning damage, and if you take 10
or more lightning damage, also mark damage to
your Infernal War Machine. Cackling gleefully,
the redcap rider to your left doesn’t notice a large
crater in its path. As you struggle to get control of
your machine once again, the redcap crashes its
machine into the crater, and you can still hear the
fey creature’s pained yelps as you drive away.
Several other cycle-machines and their riders break
off from Mad Maggie’s squad, racing to catch up
with you. Go to B56.

B55 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
You kick your driver’s side door open, utter a
magical command word, and your copper spear
transforms into a Javelin of Lightning in your
hand. You throw the bolt of lighting out the door,
and can see the redcap’s eyes go wide with fear.
“Uhoh, Mama Maggie-o,” the fey creature whispers,
a moment before your bolt strikes it right in the
chest. The resulting electricity from the lightning
strike detonates the small device in the redcap’s
hands. The resulting electricity from the lightning
strike detonates the small device in the redcap’s
hands, which shoots explosive energy in all
directions.
An arc of lightning curves over-top of your Infernal
War Machine and strikes the vehicle being ridden
by the wand-wielding redcap to your right. The
redcap and its machine spin out of control,
smashing into the side of the mountain with a
grand explosion.

If your saving throw fails, you crash your machine
into a smoking crater; take 2d6 bludgeoning
damage, and if you take 10 or more bludgeoning
damage, also mark damage to your Infernal War
Machine.
It takes you some time to get control of your vehicle
and continue your deadly ride through Fireball
Alley. By the time you pick up speed again, several
other cycle-machines and their riders break off
from Mad Maggie’s squad, racing to catch up with
you.
Remove the Javelin of Lightning from your
inventory, and then go to B56.

B56 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
You race to avoid four approaching redcaps riding
cycle-machines, and see a glimmer of hope ahead
of you. The corridor forks left and right here, and
before you can ponder which direction to take, Lulu
pipes up cheerfully.
“Turn right! There’s a maze of corridors that way
that I think we can lose them in.”
Without a better option, you prepare to take a
hard right turn just before you reach the fork in
the road, even as the redcaps continue to gain on
you. Above you, you notice three massive fireballs
falling from the sky, streaking towards the road
ahead. If you can get to the fork before the fireballs
crash into the road, you might be able to draw the
redcaps into a trap and escape before the smoke
clears.
If you try to dodge the falling fireballs and maintain
course, go to B57.
If you have a vial of pulsating liquid or a vial of
demon ichor, and want to use your blaze-boosters
to try to reach the fork before the fireballs crash
into the road, remove the vial from your inventory
and go to B58.
If you have a vial of pulsating liquid or a vial
of demon ichor, and want to slow down to avoid
the fireballs and use your infernal screamer to
deal with the redcaps, remove the vial from your
inventory and go to B59.

Another lightning arc passes directly through your
vehicle, and you feel its wheels lock up. Make a DC
10 Dexterity saving throw.

34

B57 - Driving Across Fireball Alley

B59 - Driving Across Fireball Alley

You attempt to deftly maneuver your Infernal War
Machine between the path of two falling fireballs,
then turn hard to the right at the fork in the road.
Make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. You have
disadvantage on your saving throw if you have
marked on your character sheet the Driving on a
Flat Tire trait.

You slow your vehicle to avoid driving into the
trajectory of the falling fireballs, and the redcaps
quickly catch up with you. As they pull out flails
of bone and chain, grinning victoriously, you pour
the pulsating ichor from your vial into the tube
that Lulu showed you. You then grab hold of a
crank that hangs from your Infernal War Machine’s
ceiling, while Lulu wraps her trunk around both of
the wheels to take a turn driving.

If your saving throw fails, one of the fireballs
strikes just behind your vehicle, shattering your
windows with the force of its crash, and filling
your lungs with hot, burning smoke. Take 2d6 fire
damage, and if you take 10 or more fire damage,
also mark damage to your Infernal War Machine.
Additionally, the force from the fireball causes your
flagon of mystery liquid from Shandalar to fall
from your belongings, bounce against the vehicle’s
dashboard, and fly out through the window.
Remove the item from your inventory.
The smoke from the fallen balls of flame fills the
fork in the road, and as you begin to speed down
the right-hand passage, you glance through your
back window and cannot see any signs of the
redcaps. Lulu uses her trunk to guide you through
a maze of twisting corridors, pointing whenever
there is a sharp turn in the road.
You just might make it out of Fireball Alley alive. Go
to B60.

B58 - Driving Across Fireball Alley
You pour the pulsating ichor from your vial into
the tube that Lulu showed you. At your side, a big
red button begins to glow with a beckoning light.
You grit your teeth and press the big red button;
suddenly, the Infernal War Machine’s blazeboosters ignite and the vehicle explodes forwards,
easily clearing the three balls of hellfire hurtling
through the air and towards the road. You turn
hard and to the right, a moment before you feel the
vibrations of the fireballs striking the road behind
you.
As you begin to speed down the right-hand passage,
you glance through your back window and can
see quite a lot of black smoke, but no signs of the
pursuing redcaps. Lulu uses her trunk to guide
you through a maze of twisting corridors, pointing
whenever there is a sharp turn in the road.
You just might make it out of Fireball Alley alive. Go
to B60.

You begin to crank that wheel with all of your might
as the redcaps batter the side of your vehicle with
their crude weapons. After the second full rotation,
the infernal screamer, a wax head mounted on the
hood of your machine, begins to come to eerie life.
It slowly twists its neck in complete circles, while its
jaw drops monstrously low. Suddenly, the wax head
begins to scream in anguish, and the sound of that
scream drowns out the cackling redcaps, the roar of
your engine, and everything else in Fireball Alley.
The redcaps all involuntarily reach for their ears,
and as they do so, each of them loses control
of their cycle-machines. On all sides of you, the
redcaps crash spectacularly into each other and
into the mountain, even as you try to crank the
wheel above you to deactivate the wax head and
escape its tormented screams. Make a DC 12
Strength (Athletics) check.
If your check fails, you cannot deactivate the
wax head before its screaming gives you a splitting
migraine; take 2d6 psychic damage.
Finally safe, you speed through the smoke cloud
left by the crashed fireballs and turn hard to the
right, glad to lose your pursuers at last.
“Well, that was scary!” Lulu says, before she
begins to guide you through a twisting maze of
mountainous corridors, using her trunk to point
you in the right direction at every turn.
You just might make it out of Fireball Alley alive. Go
to B60.

B60 - Nearing the End of Fireball Alley
If you have an Amulet of Proof against Detection
and Location, then you are able to successfully
escape Fireball Alley without further incident. Go
to B64.
Otherwise, continue reading on the next page.

35

You reach one final long and wide corridor of
Fireball Alley. Beyond, you see what Lulu described
to you as the Ashen Plains, a vast wasteland full of
demons and devils, where life is cheap and eternal
wars are waged. To you, from here, it just looks like
a crimson desert. It almost looks inviting.
You are distracted, pondering what adventures
and horrors will await you next, and almost do not
notice the large shadow dropping from a high ridge
to your left. With a resounding crash, Mad Maggie’s
giant Infernal War Machine slams into the road
beside you. You see the old hag’s wrinkled blue face
peer at you. She licks her lips, twists the corners of
her mouth up into a smile as wide as her head, and
claps her hands.
“Oh-ho-ho-ho! Tricky ones, these are. What a
shame! I was so looking forward to having eyescream for dessert,” Mad Maggie cackles, and then
claps her hands again. “My babies, my madcaps, do
your worst! No survivors!”
At the hag’s orders, four fey creatures leap off of
one of Maggie’s machine’s towers and onto the roof
of your vehicle. One of them crawls down to your
front window, and you get a good look at its face:
unlike the other redcaps, these terrible little foes
are covered in grotesque slime that seems to have
mutated their face and caused most of their hair to
fall out.
“Madcaps!” Lulu warns you. “They are really bad
news. They can explode, sometimes for no reason at
all! If you want me to, I can drive and you can climb
up and try to knock them off before they blow up.”
If you climb up to the roof of the Infernal War
Machine to confront the madcaps, go to B61.
If you want to use an elemental gem (water) to
summon an ally to deal with the madcaps instead,
go to B62.

36

B61 - Nearing the End of Fireball Alley

Madcap Marauder

Against your better judgment, you push open the
driver’s side door. For a moment, your vehicle
swerves out of control and you nearly tumble out
into the middle of the road. Lulu takes control of
the wheels however, and with a strong heft, you
pull yourself up onto the hood of the Infernal War
Machine. You can feel the wind rushing past you,
causing your garments to bluster. Carefully, you
stand up, keeping your center of gravity low and
hoping you don’t fall off.

Small fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 30 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

11 (+0)

8 (-1)

6 (-2)

10 (+0)

Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 8
Damage Resistances poison

Four madcaps, with crazy eyes and slime dripping
from their mouths, clamber up towards you,
wielding oversized scythes. Each madcap begins
the encounter 5 feet away from you, on top of
the 15 foot long and 10 foot wide roof of the
Infernal War Machine. Madcaps have no sense
of self-preservation and will fight to the death, or
until they spontaneously combust. Because of how
unsteady it is to fight on top of a moving vehicle, all
characters have disadvantage on attack rolls for
the duration of the encounter.

Damage Immunities fire

Whenever a madcap takes damage, but is not
defeated, it will use its next turn to climb down
beneath the wheels of the Infernal War Machine;
you may use your reaction to make an opportunity
attack before they get away. Madcaps that have
retreated beneath the vehicle are out of your lineof-sight and wait there, laughing maniacally, until
they explode. If your Infernal War Machine takes
10 or more fire damage from exploding madcaps
during this encounter, mark damage to your
Infernal War Machine.

Actions

Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)

Self-Combustion. When the madcap’s current hit points are
less than their maximum, at the end of its turn it explodes
in a small ball of hellfire and dies. Any creatures within
10 feet of the explosion must make a successful DC 12
Dexterity saving throw or take 4 (1d8) fire damage.

Scythe. Melee weapon attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage.

Because you are surrounded, you cannot spend
Destiny points to escape this encounter, though
you can spend Destiny points to survive and heal
from damage that would otherwise kill you, as
normal.
If you survive your encounter with the madcap
marauders, you climb back into the passenger
side of the vehicle, as Mad Maggie curses you in an
infernal tongue. Go to B63.

37

B62 - Nearing the End of Fireball Alley
You pull out the small gem you took from the
tomb, when you first arrived in Avernus, and hold
it in your hand. You whisper a word of power and
squeeze the gem, and it shatters in your palm.
From its shards, a swirling creature the size of a
human and made up entirely of crystal clear water
springs forth. You barely manage to kick open the
driver’s side door, choking on some of the water to
ask the creature to protect your vehicle from the fey
creatures atop of it.
With the sound of a crashing wave, the water
elemental stretches up through the open door
and disappears onto your roof. You can hear the
chittering and insane laughter of the madcaps
above you for but a few seconds, before you witness
a waterfall crashing down on all sides of the
Infernal War Machine. Make a DC 13 Dexterity
saving throw. You have disadvantage on your
saving throw if you have marked on your character
sheet the Driving on a Flat Tire trait.
If your saving throw fails, your vehicle crashes
viciously into the side of Mad Maggie’s much
larger Infernal War Machine, and you take 2d6
bludgeoning damage; if you take 10 or more
bludgeoning damage, also mark damage to your
Infernal War Machine.
After the impact, you crane your neck to look
back through your rear window. You see the
four madcaps in the middle of the road behind
you, being drowned by the water elemental. A
moment later, Mad Maggie’s Infernal War Machine
unceremoniously runs the madcaps and elementals
over. Several of the madcaps explode, but it does
not seem to slow the hag’s vehicle down at all.
Remove the elemental gem (water) from your
inventory, and then go to B63.

B63 - Nearing the End of Fireball Alley
“No one escapes Mad Maggie and her Marauders!”
the hag cries out from atop the hood of her
massive Infernal War Machine, as it pulls up right
beside your vehicle once again. She pulls a lever,
and the wrecking ball on the back of the vehicle
begins to spin around in dangerous circles. You
ready yourself for the worst … and then, a miracle
happens.

barely avoiding a tumbling boulder, and speed
away. You only look back at the wreckage once.
There, Mad Maggie claws out of the rubble and
stands up weakly.
You can just make out Mad Maggie shaking an
angry fist in your direction, before you escape out
into the Ashen Plain, leaving the hag and scorched
roads of Fireball Alley behind you. Go to B64.

B64 - Driving Through the Ashen Plains
After a short drive through the desert, you reach
the Ashen Plains. Everywhere that your eyes
can see, a vast blackened wasteland stretches
out towards the horizon. Noticing that you seem
exhausted from your adventures, Lulu offers to
drive for a while.
“You need to rest, friend! Don’t worry. I’m very good
at driving,” she tells you with a hollyphant’s bright
confidence. The tiny creature blows her trunk,
spraying you in the face with colorful sparkles.
Moments later, exhausted, you drift to sleep.
During your ride through the Ashen Plains, you
sleep peacefully, dreaming of home and the people
you care about. You only awaken for brief moments,
and when you do, you look momentarily through
the passenger window of the Infernal War Machine.
There you glimpse vignettes of what life must be
like in Avernus; you see bloody battles of gigantic
demons fighting legions of devils, ragged wanderers
with dead eyes and hopeless expressions, and pools
of writhing maggots with humanoid faces damned
to a loathsome eternity. Each time you open your
eyes, you close them quickly to shut out the horrors
of hell, and then you drift back to sleep with the
help of Lulu’s magic.
At last, after many hours, you awaken and realize
that your vehicle has stopped. Looking out through
the front window, you see a wide, dark river banked
by a shore of black rocks. Lulu is sitting atop a
dead tree stump, her back to you, looking out over
the river and an ancient bridge that seems to cross
it. Beyond the bridge, you can see a small two-story
tower. A purple light shines from a window of the
tower’s second story, pulsing every few seconds.
Advance your character to level 3, gain the
benefits of having taken a long rest, and then go
to B65.

The spinning wrecking ball crashes into the side of
a jutting cliff, and in moments, a massive rockslide
falls from the side of the mountain and buries Mad
Maggie and her machine. You swerve to the right,

38

B65 - At the Bank of the River Styx
You leave the Infernal War Machine, and
go to sit next to Lulu. The hollyphant looks
uncharacteristically sad while she looks out across
the river to the tower, and her big ears droop down
to her shoulders.
If you have marked on your character sheet the
Hollyphant Whisperer trait, then go to B66.

The hollyphant curls up her trunk after sniffing
you, but there is a twinkle in her eyes that tells you
she is only playfully teasing.
If you bathe in the river before heading to the tower,
go to B67.
If you decide not to bathe before returning home, go
to B68.

Otherwise, continue reading.

B66 - At the Bank of the River Styx

“I- I’ve really enjoyed our adventure together. It’s
been so much fun,” Lulu admits to you, ruefully.
“I think I used to be something of an adventurer,
once, a long, loooong time ago. I don’t remember
that life very much anymore. Just stinky Avernus,
and all of the evil things that happen here.”

“I don’t want you to go,” Lulu begins to weep, her
voice quivering as tears stream down her trunk.
“You’re the first real friend I’ve had since I can
remember.”

You follow Lulu’s gaze across the bridge to the
tower. The purple light inside pulses steadily,
almost like a heartbeat.
Lulu looks up at you and continues talking,
sounding suddenly cheerful and more herself again.
“But you know what? Avernus needs hollyphants
and heroes and good people to make it better here!
Sometimes I get sad, and sometimes I forget things,
but maybe I’m supposed to be here. But not you,
friend! It’s time for you to go home. There’s a portal
in that tower there that will take you back. But
before you go, you may want to freshen up a bit.
You’re a little ripe!”

After crying quietly for a few moments, the
hollyphant reminds herself aloud, “But it’s the right
thing to do. Avernus is no place for a mortal. You
have to go home, have to live your life, and be a
happy, brave adventurer. I- I’m just going to miss
you.”
And then Lulu throws herself at you, hugging you
with her tiny arms, her strong trunk, and her four
flapping wings. The embrace lasts for a long time,
before she finally breaks away and lifts up into
the air. “All of that crying made me thirsty!,” Lulu
squeaks out as she wipes a tear from one of her
eyes. “I’m gonna go get a drink, and then I’ll take
you the rest of the way.”
If you have marked on your character sheet the
Oathbound trait, and want to warn Lulu not to
drink the river water, go to B69.
If you have marked on your character sheet the
Oathbound trait, but decide not to warn Lulu
about the river water, then go to B70.
Otherwise, go to B71.

B67 - At the Bank of the River Styx
You agree that you could use to wash up before
returning home. It’s been a very long day, after all.
While you prepare to bathe, Lulu quietly slurps up
the dark water from the river through her trunk.
She is oddly quiet as she does so, perhaps lost in
thought.
Finally, you wade into the calm, relaxing water.
As you feel the rippling river wash over you, you
feel your worries fade away. That sensation fades,
however, and you begin to feel anxious: you find
yourself forgetting things.

39

How did you come to be here? Where are you?
And what exactly is this strange winged elephant
creature that is watching you?
You drag yourself up out of the river, your head
spinning with unanswered questions as you try to
get a hold of yourself. You can feel your memories
slipping from your grasp, and you realize with
growing horror that it must have been something
in the water. You find your amnesia coming and
going, and concentrating on your surroundings has
become much more difficult.
“That way. I think,” Lulu flitters up next to you,
hovering awkwardly in the air. The hollyphant’s
voice is distant and tired. You follow her pointing
trunk to the tower across the bridge. From its
second story, a purple light pulses with the rhythm
of a heartbeat.
Slowly, moving like zombies, the two of you make
your way together towards the tower.
Lose 1 point of Destiny, then note the following
traits on your character sheet: Lulu Drank and
Bathed in the River Styx. Then, go to B73.

B68 - At the Bank of the River Styx
“Suit yourself!,” Lulu responds when you tell her
that you don’t need to bathe. “Just remember that
good hygiene is one of the brave adventurer’s best
weapons! Anyhow, wait for me at the bridge. I need
to hydrate. All of that excitement has made me
thiiiirsty!”
You leave the shore and head up to the bridge
to wait for Lulu. The minutes pass, and you are
beginning to get worried about the little hollyphant,
before she finally flies up over a hill on the shore
to meet you. As she approaches, her wings flap
lethargically and there is a confused look in her
eyes. She almost bumps into you, before she
changes directions and begins to fly slowly over the
bridge and towards the tower beyond. You can see
that purple light, pulsing from the second story of
the tower.
“This way. It’s this way, I think,” Lulu drones in an
uncharacteristically monotone voice. You quickly
follow to catch up. Note the following trait on your
character sheet: Lulu Drank. Then go to B73.

B69 - At the Bank of the River Styx

ghost said of her lost memories since coming to
Avernus. She almost seems to not believe you, until
you mention the name of the Archdevil Zariel. You
can see the hollyphant’s eyes flickering side-toside rapidly, as though her old and forgotten life is
flashing before her eyes.
After a few moments of stunned silence, Lulu
whispers, “Zariel. She was so good, once. But when
we came here to Avernus, to fight the demons and
the devils … something changed. Oh, how I wish I
could remember. I remember some things, though.
I remember how I used to sing to Zariel when she
was angry, and it would calm her down. And when
I was sad, she would play her harp, and hold me.
She- she was my very best friend.”
Lulu looks so sad that you cannot help but
embrace her. She squeezes you back with her trunk
and says, cheerfully “It’s okay! I believe what Sir
Albin said. It’s never too late for redemption. I’m not
gonna give up on Zariel. And maybe you could help!
Can I see that ball that I made for you?”
You offer the hollyphant the ball of sparkles,
and as you hold it out for her, you can feel an
overwhelming sense of love and goodness in your
heart. Lulu takes the sphere with her trunk and
begins to sing.
You listen to the song’s tale of two dear friends, a
faerie and a halfling from different worlds, who are
only able to speak to each other through the veil
of the feywild one night each year when the green
star L’un-zi shines brightest in the night sky. The
song is sad and hopeful, just like Lulu, and you
find yourself entranced by the hollyphant’s magical
voice. Go to B72.

B70 - At the Bank of the River Styx
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Mean to Hollyphants.
You leave Lulu to drink from the dark waters of
the river, and head up to the bridge to wait for her.
After ten minutes, she finally flies up over a hill
on the shore to meet you. As she approaches, her
wings flap lethargically and there is a confused look
in her eyes. She almost bumps into you, before she
changes directions and begins to fly slowly over the
bridge and towards the tower beyond. You can see
that purple light, pulsing from the second story of
the tower.

You stop Lulu, and tell her of the warning Sir Albin
gave you about drinking from the River Styx. She
looks surprised as you explain to her what the old

40

“This way. It’s this way, I think,” Lulu drones in an
uncharacteristically monotone voice. You quickly
follow to catch up. Note the following trait on your
character sheet: Lulu Drank. Then go to B73.

B71 - At the Bank of the River Styx
You leave Lulu to drink from the dark waters of the
river, and head up to the bridge to wait for her. The
minutes pass, and you are beginning to get worried
about the little hollyphant, before she finally flies
up over a hill on the shore to meet you. As she
approaches, her wings flap lethargically and there
is a confused look in her eyes. She almost bumps
into you, before she changes directions and begins
to fly slowly over the bridge and towards the tower
beyond. You can see that purple light, pulsing from
the second story of the tower.
“This way. It’s this way, I think,” Lulu drones in an
uncharacteristically monotone voice. You quickly
follow to catch up. Go to B73.

B72 - At the Bank of the River Styx
When Lulu finishes singing, the hollyphant
stretches out her trunk and puts the ball of multicolored sparkles back into your hands. When
you take it, you can hear the song all over again,
as though it were being sung inside your mind.
Carefully, you put the sphere away.

Lulu flies off towards the bridge, humming her
song through her trunk and whistling happily. You
scramble to keep up. Note the following trait on
your character sheet: Lulu’s BFF, and then go to
B73.

B73 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
You cross the bridge over the dark river and
approach the old tower on the other side. As purple
light from its second story window beckons you,
you can see streaks of fire falling from the crimson
sky in the distance. Eager to escape Avernus once
and for all, you do not hesitate once you reach the
tower’s crumbling granite walls. With Lulu flying
beside you, you push hard on the ruin’s thick,
wooden door. It creaks open with an ancient groan,
and you step inside.
You expected the first floor of the tower to be a
small, circular space, but instead you find yourself
in a long hallway bathed in eerie, blue and purple
light. At the far end of the hall is a set of stairs.
You advance quickly on the stairs, but after several
steps into the corridor, your breath begins to fog
the air and your skin begins to crawl. Your chilled
breath expands and grows into a large cloud before
you, and out of it materializes a beautiful, severelooking woman with short, fiery hair. She wears
black leather and a horned crown.

Replace a ball of multi-colored sparkles with the
following item in your inventory: Lulu’s Song. So
long as the singing sphere is in your possession,
you can recall Lulu’s song, and have advantage on
saving throws against being charmed or frightened.
“If you ever meet Zariel, will you give her this and
tell her that it’s from Lulu?” Lulu asks. When you
agree, she squeals with joy and flies in excited
circles around your head.
“Thank you! No, really. For everything! Now I know
what my purpose is here in Avernus. I’m going to
save Zariel! And then … maybe, just maaaybe … the
whole wide world!” Lulu trumpets, batting her eyes
hopefully. When she finally calms down, she sucks
in a deep breath through her trunk and adds,
“Okay then, my new Bestest-Friend-Forever! Let’s
get you home, where you belong.”

41

The woman holds up her hands, just inches from
you, and fire dances off of her finger tips. She
smiles at you and says, in a honeyed-tongue, “Poor
creature. Stuck here, in this hell, against your will.
My, my, my. What a terrible fate for one with so
much potential.”
This close to her, you can smell the sulfur on the
woman’s breath.
“Of course, you are not the first mortal to want to
return to their own plane of existence through my
tower. Things are not so easy, are they? In Avernus,
everything has a price. Would you care to hear
mine?”
If you have marked on your character sheet the
Lulu Drank trait, then go to B74.
Otherwise, go to B75.

B74 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
“What beautiful hair you have, lady,” Lulu tells
the strange woman standing in your way, as she
flitters in the air behind you. You glance over your
shoulder and notice that Lulu’s tiny eyes are glazed
over.
“Why, thank you, dear hollyphant. I am no lady,
of course. I am T’an-mo, a simple devil making her
way in Avernus. Yet do not judge me for how I was
born: I find most of my kin repulsive and cruel.
But come, let us speak to matters more important,”
the she-devil speaks gently, her voice sweet and
sympathetic. Go to B76.

B75 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
“Be careful, friend!” Lulu blurts out, waving her
trunk aggressively at the woman standing in front
of you. “That is T’an-mo, the devil that guards the
tower. It’s said that when T’an-mo barters, you
must never accept her first offer!”
T’an-mo’s eyes narrow wickedly at the hollyphant
and she sucks in air through her teeth, making a
sort of backwards hissing sound.
“I am a fair devil. The fairest in Avernus, wouldn’t
you agree?” the beautiful devil says sweetly,
touching the side of your face with a gentle finger.
Her touch is almost painfully cold. “But so be it. Let
us get to the bargaining.”

you deny her deal, she will try to destroy you. I- I
won’t be able to help. OOH! Please, be careful.”
Lulu hugs you around your neck, and then the
hollyphant flitters back behind you to watch you
deal with the devil. Go to B76.

B76 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
T’an-mo settles her hands on her hips and smiles
at you. For a moment, you can see a hellish blaze
swirl in her irises. “My offer is simple, mortal. You
will die here, in Avernus, or suffer a worse fate yet. I
will let you pass through the portal in my tower and
return safely to your world. In exchange, I ask only
for your soul when you die. You may live your life
happily, and in death, you will serve me … in any
way that I see fit. Certainly that does not sound so
bad, mmh?”
With a snap of her wrist, a piece of parchment
appears in her hand, and on it is a fully written
contract. Strangely enough, you seem to be able to
read the contract.

I, ______, agree to sell my soul for all eternity to
T’an-mo. In doing so, I will serve T’an-mo upon
collection of my soul, in whatever manner she sees
fit. I agree to be unable to act against T’an-mo,
disobey her orders, or otherwise scheme to nullify
this contract’s binding magics.
I, T’an-mo, agree to allow this mortal to pass through
my Tower and its portal, and do what else is in my
power to help them return safely to their own plane
of existence. I agree to be unable to take any action
to hasten this mortal’s death, or otherwise interfere
with their right to live a normal life.

You read and re-read the contract carefully,
considering the heavy offer. Glancing down to your
hand, you realize that somehow you have come to
be holding a quill. Droplets of your blood trickle out
of a small gash on the palm of your hand, and that
same blood drips from the tip of the quill.

Lulu hovers closer to you and whispers into your
ear, “Hollyphants have no power over T’an-mo. If

42

If you sign the contract, then note on your
character sheet the following trait: Sold Your Soul,
and then go to B77.
If you demand a better deal, go to B78.
If you attack T’an-mo, go to B79.

B77 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
When you sign the contract in your own blood,
its infernal script catches aflame. T’an-mo smiles
coyly at you and rolls the parchment back up. “The
portal is just up the stairs” she tells you, easily.
The devil then leans in to give you a kiss on your
forehead, her lips so cold that it sears your flesh.
Take 1d10 necrotic damage.
“Good doing business with you, my dear, sweet,
delicious mortal,” the devil whispers into your ear.
And then she, and the contract you signed, are
simply gone.
Your heart pounds in your chest with the weight of
what you have just done. You know that your life
will never be the same, but feel hopeful that you
will at least escape Avernus. You turn to Lulu, who
says nothing, only offering a small, disapproving
shake of her elephantine head.
Together, silently, the two of you walk to the end of
the ruined corridor and climb the crumbling stairs
to the top of the tower.
Lose 1 point of Destiny, and then go to B87.

B78 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
Unwilling to sell your soul for all of eternity, you
demand that T’an-mo offer you a better deal. She
hisses at you and clacks her tongue to the roof of
her mouth three times. She looks you up and down,
very slowly, as though she were eyeing a piece of
meat at the marketplace.
And then, at last, she asks you a simple question.
“In Avernus, we barter with souls. If you will not
sell me yours, then your counter-offer must be very
charitable, indeed. Tell me, what souls will you offer
me?”
You ponder the question carefully, knowing that
at any moment, the devil could grow tired of this
matter and turn on you. Go to B80.

43

B79 - Inside the Crumbling Tower

T’an Mo

You decide that you’ve heard enough from T’an-mo,
and spring into action. Lulu flies away from the
fight, chirping, “I’m sorry! I can’t help against some
devils, like T’an-mo! J-just, be careful and don’t
hold anything back!”

Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil

As you move to attack, T’an-mo summons hellfire
that dances over her palm and across her finger
tips. She grins wickedly at you, and you watch
as her beautiful face rots away into something
resembling a horned skeleton with a devilish
purple light that escapes her empty eye-sockets
and open, fanged mouth. She speaks with a voice
like a rumbling volcano, and her breath stinks of
brimstone.

Armor Class 11 (14 with mage armor)
Hit Points 60 (11d8+11)
Speed 30 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

16 (+3)

14 (+2)

18 (+4)

Saving Throws Con +3, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +5, Deception +6, Insight +6, Perception +4,
Persuasion +6
Damage Resistances fire; bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened

“So, you want to be a hero? Fool! There are no
heroes in Avernus,” she hisses a moment before
battle is met. If you have marked on your character
sheet the Fear of Bony Things trait, then your
courage falters and you must make a DC 13
Charisma saving throw at the start of your turn;
until you succeed a Charisma saving throw, all
of your attacks have disadvantage and you must
attempt the saving throw again at the start of your
next turn.

Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 14

T’an-mo begins the encounter 10 feet away
from you in the 10 foot wide corridor, and you
begin 70 feet from the stairs leading upward.
She has already cast Mage Armor on herself before
the encounter, and proceeds to attack you with
her burning hands spell. If you get within melee
range of the devil, she uses the Misty Step spell
to retreat further down the corridor. If you try to
move past her to run up the stairs, she will use her
reaction to cast Burning Hands on you, and then
on her turn use her movement action and cast
Misty Step to block your way forward again. If you
use an elemental gem (water) to summon a water
elemental to aid you in the encounter, T’an-mo will
cast her Banishment spell on the elemental to try to
counter its threat.

darkvision.

If you manage to injure T’an-mo by reducing her
health to half of its maximum, on her next turn,
she casts her Teleportation spell to vanish from the
tower, and the encounter ends.

Languages Common, Infernal
Challenge 3 (700 XP)

Devil’s Bargain. Any creature that has signed a contract
with T’an-Mo that finds and abuses a loophole to escape
the contract, or otherwise has the trait T’an-Mo’s Mortal
Enemy marked on their character sheet, is vulnerable to all
damage dealt by T’an-Mo.
Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede T’an-Mo’s

Innate Spellcasting. T’an-Mo’s innate spellcasting ability
is Charisma (spell save DC 14). She can innately cast the
following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: Burning Hands, Detect Evil and Good, Disguise Self,

Mage Armor, Minor Illusion, Misty Step

2/day: Banishment, Teleportation
Actions

Burning Hands. Each creature in a 15-foot cone of T’anMo must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. T’an-mo can cast burning
hands as a reaction when a character within 5 ft. of her
uses their movement to move further away, but the spell
can only target the moving character.

44

If you decide to escape this encounter, you must
spend 3 points of Destiny. You manage to push
past T’an-mo and race up the stairs. Not looking
back, you can hear Lulu trumpet her trunk
triumphantly, calling after you, “Run! Run, friend!
And don’t forget me!” T’an-mo’s hateful screams
chase you up to the top of the tower, where you
find a large portal glowing with a purple light. With
no time to waste, you leap into the portal without
abandon. Note the following trait on your character
sheet: T’an-Mo’s Mortal Enemy, and then go to
B88.
If you defeat T’an-mo, or T’an-Mo flees, Lulu
gives you a big hug. Without any other obstacles in
your path, the two of you quickly make your way up
the crumbling stairs to the top of the tower. Add the
following trait to your character sheet: T’an-mo’s
Mortal Enemy, and then go to B87.

B80 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
You consider your counter-offer to the devil T’an-mo
carefully. Behind you, you can hear Lulu’s small
wings flutter nervously.
If you have a soul coin, and want to offer it to T’anmo, then go to B81.
If you have an elemental gem (water), and want to
offer it to T’an-mo, then go to B82.
If you have both a soul coin and an elemental gem
(water), and want to offer them both to T’an-mo,
then go to B83.
If you have marked on your character sheet both
the Mean to Hollyphants and Lulu Drank traits,
it occurs to you that you might offer Lulu’s soul
to T’an-mo. If you decide to make this offer, go to
B84.
Otherwise, you decide to tell T’an-mo to pick her
price, so long as it is not your soul. Go to B85.

B81 - Inside the Crumbling Tower

If you make another offer, then go to B80 and
make a choice that you have not made before.
If you decide to attack T’an-mo instead, then go to
B79.

B82 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
You produce an elemental gem (water) in
your hand and hold it out to offer T’an-mo. She
considers it for a long moment, clacking her tongue
to the roof of her mouth three times as she ponders
your offer.
“The soul of a water elemental is rare, indeed, here
in Avernus. Still… I think… no. As much as I enjoy
collecting rare things, I am simply too fond of you to
allow you to leave here so cheaply. What else do you
have to offer?”
You look down at the swirling blue gem in your
hand and realize that you are going to have to offer
more if you want the devil to agree to let you escape
Avernus.
If you make another offer, then go to B80 and
make a choice that you have not made before.
If you decide to attack T’an-mo instead, then go to
B79.

B83 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
You hold out a soul coin in one hand and an
elemental gem (water) in the other. T’an-mo smiles
at you, and you can see now that her tongue is
forked like a snake’s.
“Oh, my. You have got my attention. Offering two
souls for the price of one is a scrumptious bargain.
And yet… I simply cannot quit you, my dear. I want
you. Tell me why I should let you go so easily?”
You have piqued T’an-mo’s curiosity, but you also
know that your next words could cost you your very
soul. Make a DC 16 Charisma (Persuasion) check.

“A single soul coin? What, did you steal this from a
warlord? Some bandit? Ha! Come now, dear mortal,
I know that you can do better than that.”

If your check succeeds, then T’an-mo reluctantly
accepts your offer, presenting you a new, simpler
contract. You feel certain that you will not receive
a better deal from the devil, and steady your hand
to sign the parchment in your own blood. Note
the following trait on your character sheet: Soul
Sacrificer, and then go to B77.

You look down at the coin in your hand and realize
that you are going to have to offer more if you want
the devil to agree to let you escape Avernus.

If your check fails, then T’an-mo kindly rejects
your offer. “I still think that you are holding out on
me, dear one,” she says with an entrancing smile.

You produce a soul coin in your hand and hold it
out to offer T’an-mo. She laughs in your face, the
sound both sweet and scary all at once.

45

If you make another offer, then go to B80 and
make a choice that you have not made before.

“N-n-n-nooo! You were supposed to be my friend!”
Lulu shrieks out in terror as you barter her soul to
the devil.

I, ______, agree to, upon the yearly anniversary
of signing this contract, sacrifice the soul of one
sentient, innocent person to T’an-mo. To do so, I
swear to call upon T’an-mo by name and look the
chosen sacrifice in the eye, before I cut out their
heart. I agree to be unable to act against T’anmo, or to attempt to harm her in any manner. This
agreement shall be binding until the day of my
death.

T’an-mo clicks her tongue to the roof of her mouth
three times, and smiles so wide that you can see
her skin begin to crack along her cheekbones. She
hisses, with a voice that sounds like ash, “You
foolish hollyphant. No one is anyone’s friend in
Avernus!”

I, T’an-mo, agree to allow this mortal to pass through
my Tower and its portal, and do what else is in my
power to help them return safely to their own plane
of existence. I agree to be unable to take any action
to hasten this mortal’s death, or otherwise interfere
with their right to live a normal life.

If you decide to attack T’an-mo instead, then go to
B79.

B84 - Inside the Crumbling Tower

The devil raises her arms and begins to chant in
an infernal tongue, flame dancing from her palms.
Lulu shakes with fear, and does her best to blow
through her trunk as hard as she can. This time,
though, no sparkles trumpet. The only sound the
frightened hollyphant makes is a sad, weak whine,
before she is engulfed by two columns of hellfire.
Your stomach churns as you watch Lulu burn alive,
her golden fur peeling away from the flesh beneath
it. After several moments that feel like an eternity,
the poor hollyphant stops twitching on the ground.
“Zariel… forgive... me,” Lulu whimpers with her last
breath. And then, she is gone.
You feel numb as T’an-mo presents to you a new
contract, exchanging Lulu’s soul for your ticket
out of Avernus. You raise a shaking hand to sign,
knowing that what you have done is an affront to
the Gods and everything good in the world. But
at least, for now, your actions have allowed you to
escape the hell that undoubtedly waits for you.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Damned, and then go to B86.

B85 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
Uncertain of what else you have to offer, you ask
for the devil to name her price to allow you to leave
Avernus. This pleases her greatly. She snaps her
fingers and presents a new contract for you to sign
in your own blood.

You finish reading the contract and shiver with
dread at the weight of what T’an-mo is asking.
If you sign the contract, then note on your
character sheet the following trait: Reaper of Souls,
and go to B77.
If you rebuke T’an-mo’s offer and attack the devil,
then go to B79.

B86 - Inside the Crumbling Tower
When you sign the contract in your own blood,
its infernal script catches aflame. T’an-mo smiles
coyly at you and rolls the parchment back up. “The
portal is just up the stairs,” she tells you, easily.
The devil then leans in to give you a kiss on your
forehead, her lips so cold that it sears your flesh.
Take 1d10 necrotic damage.
“Good doing business with you, my dear, sweet,
delicious mortal,” the devil whispers into your ear.
And then she, and the contract you signed, are
simply gone.
Your heart pounds in your chest with the weight of
what you have just done. You make the lonely walk
up the crumbling stairs to the top of the tower.
There, you stand before a large purple portal that
pulses every few seconds with a steady rhythm. You
close your eyes tightly, trying to forget everything
you have been through since you came to Avernus,
and prepare to step through.
Lose 1 point of Destiny, and then go to B88.

46

B87 - Inside the Crumbling Tower

B88 - Inside the Crumbling Tower

You and Lulu reach the top of the tower, and
you find yourself in a small, circular room with
crumbling granite walls. In the center of the room is
a large portal that pulses rhythmically with a bright
purple light. Your gaze turns briefly to the paneless
window on the front of the tower wall, and through
it, you can get a glimpse of the hell that is Avernus
outside.

You step through the portal and its purple light
changes, glowing with a deep crimson hue. You
are overwhelmed by a sense of weightlessness, as
though you were floating mid-air. And then gravity
pulls on you and all the light in the world goes
dark. You feel like you are falling, faster and faster
and faster! You are certain that you will crash into
the ground and shatter like glass at any moment.
Just when you believe you cannot take it anymore,
you no longer feel as though you are falling.

“I don’t want to say goodbye,” the hollyphant tells
you, tearfully. She floats next to you and lands at
your feet, looking up at you with great fondness in
her eyes. “I wish that I knew how to tell you how
much helping you find your way home has meant
to me. I- I think I used to do a lot of good things for
people, a long time ago. I think that I’m gonna stay
here and try to help more people like you. Avernus
might be a bad place, but even the worst places can
be made better with a little more friendship, and a
little more hollyphant magic!”

In fact, you can feel nothing at all. Go to C1.

Lulu wraps her trunk around your leg and hugs
you at your waist. She pleads, softly, “Just don’t
forget me when you’re gone. And… thank you for
giving me a chance to be myself again. I promise I
won’t forget you, either. No matter what.”
You stand there for quite some time, with Lulu
wrapped around you, not able to let you go. Finally,
the hollyphant releases you and flies back to sit
on the ledge of the window. She waves at you and
blows her trunk, filling the air with rainbow-colored
sparkles that make you feel warm and loved.
“Not goodbye. Until I see you again! Now go become
a great big, AWESOME adventurer!,” Lulu says
cheerfully in her sing-song voice. And then you step
into the purple light of the portal, ready to leave
Avernus at last. Go to B88.

47

Chapter Three: The Lady in Green
C1 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
You open your eyes and find yourself lying down
and staring up at a stone ceiling covered in
crystals. The air around you is cool and refreshing,
soothing your sand-stung lungs. Sitting up, the soft
grass gives way under your fingers, cushioning your
efforts to stand. Behind you a familiar portal pulses
with energy, bathing the cavern you’re in with a soft
purple light. You’re out of Avernus and back in the
Lady in Green’s cave.
Down the tunnel is the sound of clicking footsteps
against stone. The Lady in Green’s voice calls
out sweetly as she comes into view. Her eyes are
downcast, fiddling with an intricate wreath of
flowers.
“Zariel, I didn’t expect you to be back so soon-” She
stops in her tracks as she notices you, her eyes
narrowing at you. “You! How did you get back here?
No one ever returns from Avernus...”
The Lady in Green’s wreath slips from her fingers
and falls to the ground. You can see green magical
energy start to form around the Lady’s hands, as
prepares to either attack you or send you back to
hell.

If you try to placate her with an offering or gift, go
to C2.
If you try to convince her that Zariel allowed you to
return to the Material plane, go to C7.
If you decide to attack her, go to C15.

C2 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
You decide to try to appease the Lady in Green with
an offering, so that she might listen to you.
If you offer her a flagon of mystery liquid, then go
to C3.
If you offer her a vial of demon ichor, then go to
C4.
If you show her Lulu’s Song, then go to C8.
Otherwise, you are a bit lost on what to offer her.
Go to C5.

C3 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
Miraculously throughout your series of
misadventures, the flagon of mystery liquid that
Shandalar had given you is still intact in your
belongings. As you take it out of your pack, the
Lady’s eyes widen, and she holds out her hand.
Once you hand it over, the Lady immediately opens
up the lid, takes a deep inhale of the contents, and
smiles. She delicately takes a sip, closing her eyes
to savour the taste. As she drinks, you can see
small colourful flowers start to bloom in her hair,
vines twisting their way up her goat-like legs and
joining the greenery of her dress. When she opens
her eyes again, they are a more vivid green, and
they take you in with a serene clearness.
“Only the best blood and honey milk from the weird
wizard,” she says, her voice now calm and sweet,
as lilting as a song. “If you had this, then I suppose
you were sent by Shandalar himself?”
As you nod and tell her Shandalar’s message, she
inclines her head in understanding. “Well then,
I suppose it is time for me to complete my end of
the deal.” She snaps her fingers and you blink,
instantly arriving back in front of Shandalar’s
floating home beside the Lady in Green.
Remove a flagon of mystery liquid from your
inventory, and note the following trait to your
character sheet: Delivered the Flagon. Then go to
Chapter 4.

48

C4 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
Pulling the vial of demon ichor from your pack,
you offer it out to the Lady in Green. She carefully
plucks it from your hands, lifts it up to the light,
and examines it thoroughly. As the ichor pulses in
the soft purple light of the cave, the Lady lips curl
into a wide yet insidious smile.
Before you can say anything, she closes her eyes,
uncorks the vial, holds it up to her lips, and quickly
drinks down down the ichor. As she swallows, you
can see the hem of her dress start to turn from a
dark green to a crimson red. The color spreads up
her skirt and bodice until her whole dress is the
same red of the Avernus sands.
Her eyes open once more to settle on you, and
you can see that her irises are no longer a vibrant
green, but rather black and pupiless. The Lady
smiles at you, her teeth just a little sharper than
you remember them.
“Thank you,” she says, her voice soft but resonant,
as if layered by other whispering voices. “This will
make my visits to Avernus so much easier.” Her
hand rests on your shoulder, long nails digging in
slightly. “I suppose you came here for a reason… tell
me how I can repay this favor?”
You tell her Shandalar’s message, and she inclines
her head in understanding. “Let’s waste no time
then… I’m quite eager to see my beloved.” She
snaps her fingers and you blink, instantly arriving
back in front of Shandalar’s floating home beside
the Lady in Green.
Remove a vial of demon ichor from your inventory,
and note the following trait to your character sheet:
The Lady Drank Ichor. Then go to Chapter 4.

C5 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
Realizing that you don’t have anything suitable to
offer to the Lady in Green, your mind spins as you
try to think of alternatives. The Lady looks at you,
her eyes narrowing further as she assesses your
silence.
“You don’t have anything to offer, do you?” Her lips
curl into an amused smile that doesn’t quite reach
her eyes. She realizes that she has you cornered.
“But it would be quite rude to offer something and
not deliver on anything.”
She dances around you, her movements graceful
and musical. She is close enough that you can
smell the sickly-sweet flowers that entwine

themselves in her hair. As she circles back in front
of you, she extends a hand out to you. “Let’s make a
deal then,” she offers. ”I’ll let you leave untouched,
so long as you agree upon fulfilling one favor for me
sometime in the future. Anything that I ask!”
If you accept the deal, go to C6.
If you decline the deal, go to C15.

C6 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
“Very good,” the Lady in Green claps. She touches
her hand to yours, and a rush of energy flows
through you, followed by a burning sensation on
your wrist. It’s over before you can react, and the
Lady in Green drops your hand. You lift your arm
up to see a green-inked tattoo of a vine circling your
wrist, a reminder of your deal now permanently
carved on your flesh.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Fey-Sworn. You now owe the Lady in Green a favor
anytime she wishes to call upon it.
The Lady smiles at you now, satisfied with the
outcome. “You may leave if you wish,” she says,
indicating the front of the cavern. You explain that
you were originally sent here by Shandalar, and
that you can’t leave without delivering the message.
“Well, I suppose I can take some time to help
the weird wizard,” she says nonchalantly, stifling
a yawn. She snaps her fingers and you blink,
instantly arriving back in front of Shandalar’s
floating home beside the Lady in Green. Go to
Chapter 4.

C7 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
“Pah! You mean to tell me that Zariel allowed you to
return?” The Lady in Green seems skeptical of your
claim. “I’ll need proof that you somehow convinced
her you were worth the trouble, or that she liked
you enough to let you leave her domain.”
If you have Lulu’s Song, then go to C8.
If you offer to answer a quiz about Zariel, then go
to C11.

C8 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
You produce the shimmering ball of multi-colored
sparkles, a gift from your hollyphant friend, and
hold it out to the Lady. While it is in your hands,
you can hear Lulu’s sad, sweet song echo in your
ears. The Lady’s eyes widen with shock, and as she

49

brushes her fingers across the glittering surface
of the sphere, she begins to hum along with the
song. You realize that she must somehow know this
song too, and the emotion welling up in the Lady in
Green’s eyes betrays how much it means to her.

If your check fails, the Lady’s brows furrow with
anger. “How dare you try to lie to me, you simpleminded mortal?!” Her hands begin to glow fiercely
once more, and her expression twists with rage. Go
to C15.

Finally, she pulls her gaze away from the ball and
she looks back at you. “How did you get this?” she
demands, her voice a mixture of sorrow and threat.
If you tell her the truth and reveal that Lulu gave it
to you, then go to C9.

If your check succeeds, the Lady’s eyes squint
in confusion, but she nods at last. “An oddly…
personal token from her, but I suppose Zariel
has seen something in you that I have not.” She
reluctantly withdraws her hand from the ball of
sparkles and takes a step back.

If you lie and tell her that Zariel allowed you to
leave Avernus, then go to C10.

“Clearly you want to be back on this plane for a
reason,” she says. “Why are you here?”

C9 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
You tell the Lady in Green the truth, that you met
and befriended Lulu, and that she bestowed this
gift to you in the hopes that one day Zariel might
be redeemed. As you describe the story of your
adventure in Avernus with the hollyphant, and the
promise you had given Lulu, the Lady’s eyes fill
with greendrop tears.
“Oh, Lulu… the sweetest and most faithful friend
Zariel could’ve ever had,” the Lady in Green says,
her voice cracking slightly from old, haunting
memories. “If she has given this to you, then you
must hold onto it and do whatever you can to help
spread Lulu’s goodness to others in the world.” She
squeezes your hand holding onto the singing sphere
longingly before she finally lets you go.
“But something brought you back here… why have
you come here, to my home?”
You explain to the Lady that you still have a prior
quest to complete: to send along a message from
Shandalar and have her travel to his home. She
nods in understanding, and holds out her hand.
“Come then, let’s go to see the wizard.” With a snap
of her fingers you blink, instantly arriving back in
front of Shandalar’s floating home beside the Lady
in Green.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Made the Lady Remember, and then go to
Chapter 4.

You tell her Shandalar’s message, and she inclines
her head in understanding. “I see. I suppose I
should fulfill that end of my bargain, then. And
allow you to fulfill yours, as well.” She snaps her
fingers and you blink, instantly arriving back in
front of Shandalar’s floating home beside the Lady
in Green. Go to Chapter 4.

C11 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
“A quiz, you say?” The Lady in Green raises a brow,
and then grows silent for a moment. When she
speaks again, there is a certain fascination that
lights up her eyes. “Interesting! Let’s see how well
you do.” She smiles, more amused than anything.
“First question. If you know Zariel as well as you
claim to, you know what she is beneath her human
disguise. What is she?”
Make a DC 10 Intelligence (History) check. If you
have marked on your character sheet the Bathed
in the River Styx trait, you have disadvantage
on your check. If you instead have marked on
your character sheet the Oathbound trait, you
automatically succeed.
If your check succeeds, then go to C12.
If your check fails, then the Lady in Green’s lips
twist in a sneer, having caught you in your lie. Her
hands begin to glow with a fierce light, and she
advances on you with a menacing grace. Go to
C15.

C10 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
You double down on your lie that Zariel let you
leave Avernus alive. You spin a yarn about how
Zariel gave the singing sphere to you as a token of
good faith. Make a DC 16 Charisma (Deception)
check.

50

C12 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
“Yes, yes, an archdevil. But that was an easy one.
Next question: who was her closest friend?”
Make a DC 13 Intelligence (History) check. If you
have marked on your character sheet the Bathed
in the River Styx trait, you have disadvantage
on your check. If you instead have marked on
your character sheet the Lulu’s BFF trait, you
automatically succeed.
If your check succeeds, then go to C13.
If your check fails, then the Lady in Green’s lips
twist in a sneer, having caught you in your lie. Her
hands begin to glow with a fierce light, and she
advances on you with a menacing grace. Go to
C15.

C13 - Inside the Lady’s Cave

and vulnerable. “If Zariel did allow you to be free of
Avernus… perhaps she’s taken her first steps down
the path of goodness. Perhaps it is not too late for
her.”
The Lady in Green extends a hand out to you.
“I apologize for how I have treated you. Is there
something I can do to help you?”
You explain that you are here on a mission from
Shandalar, and that he requires the help of her
magic at his home.
She inclines her head in understanding. “Then let
us go, shall we?” She snaps her fingers and you
blink, instantly arriving back in front of Shandalar’s
floating home beside the Lady in Green.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Made the Lady Remember, and then go to
Chapter 4.

“Lulu… a name I haven’t heard in a long time. A
sweet little thing, she was.” The Lady’s smile falters
for a moment, realizing that you may know more
than she expected. “Very well, then. Humor me
with one final question: what was the great sin that
caused Zariel to fall?”
Make a DC 13 Intelligence (History) check. If you
have marked on your character sheet the Bathed
in the River Styx trait, you have disadvantage on
your check. If you instead have marked on your
character sheet the Lulu’s BFF trait, you have
advantage on your check.
If your check succeeds, then go to C14.
If your check fails, then the Lady in Green’s lips
twist in a sneer, having caught you in your lie. Her
hands begin to glow with a fierce light, and she
advances on you with a menacing grace. Go to
C15.

C14 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
“Betraying the forces of heaven, to rule in hell. The
lowest moment of a once proud angel. Yes… such a
pity.” The Lady’s head bows low and her shoulders
slump forward, the most unguarded you’ve yet seen
her. She continues, her voice full of regret, “I tried
to tell her that going to that final battle wasn’t a
good idea. I was afraid that she would never come
back. And in the end, though she did return, she
was never really herself again.”
The Lady takes a deep breath and then sighs. She
looks up to lock eyes with you, her expression soft

51

C15 - Inside the Lady’s Cave

The Lady in Green

The Lady in Green seems determined that you will
never escape her home alive. You believe that the
only way out of this situation, once and for all, is to
fight for your life.

Medium fey, chaotic neutral

During this encounter, the Lady in Green begins
15 feet away from you. She attempts to keep you
restrained you with her Entangle spell, or her luring
song if her Entangle spell proves ineffective. Once
you are restrained or incapacitated, she uses her
dark kiss attack to drain you of your lifeblood.
If you have a bag of salt, you can make your
choice of a DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) or
Intelligence (Religion) check.
If your check succeeds, you can use your action to
form a protective salt circle around you with a 5 foot
radius. This prevents the Lady from touching you,
or using melee attacks against you, for as long as
you remain within the circle. If you have protected
yourself this way, she will use her luring song to
try to charm you to leave your protective circle and
walk right into her embrace. Otherwise, she will
attack you at a distance of 10 feet with her Eldritch
Blast spell.
If you decide to escape the encounter, you must
spend 2 points of Destiny. Just when it seems all
hope is lost, as the Lady in Green clutches onto
you, her fangs scraping across your neck, the portal
behind you flares. The purple light grows brighter,
almost blinding, and the Lady shrinks away to cover
her eyes. You use the opportunity to pull away from
her grasp, and somehow manage to snap the chain
of her necklace. The necklace’s cold pendant falls,
and you snatch it out of the air. The Lady screeches
in outrage and she reaches for you -- you can feel
her fingers barely brush against your jawline, before
she suddenly vanishes into thin air. The light of the
portal fades back to a faint purple glow, leaving you
alone in the cavern.
If you defeat the Lady in Green, her body lays
still on the cave floor. After a few quiet moments,
vines begin to grow from the ground, reaching up
and curling around her seemingly lifeless form.
In the span of a few beautiful moments, the Lady
is cocooned in vines, leaves, and brightly colored
flowers. The plants seem to whisper, their strange
language echoing musically in the cavern, before
they swallow the body into the earth. When all is
still once more, there is nothing left of the Lady in
Green but her pendant.

Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 52 (7d8+21)
Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

8 (-1)

14 (+2)

16 (+3)

12 (+1)

14 (+2)

18 (+4)

Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +5, Insight +6, Perception +6, Persuasion +6
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, paralyzed,
poisoned, restrained
Senses truesight 120ft., passive perception 16
Languages Common, Celestial, Infernal, Sylvan
Challenge 2 (450 XP)

Innate Spellcasting. The Lady in Green’s innate spellcasting
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell
attacks). She can innately cast the following spells,
requiring no material components:
At will: Calm Emotions, Entangle, Detect Evil and Good,

Dancing Lights, Eldritch Blast, Faerie Fire, Minor Illusion,
Silent Image

Actions

Eldritch Blast. Ranged spell attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft.,
one creature. Hit: 5 (1d10) force damage.
Dark Kiss. Melee weapon attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature that is restrained or incapacitated. Hit: 3 piercing
damage and 2 (1d4) necrotic damage, and the target loses
points of Constitution equal to the necrotic damage dealt.
If the target’s Constitution is reduced to 0, they fall asleep
and peacefully die. Constitution lost this way can only be
regained by taking a long rest, or by Greater Restoration or
a similar spell.
Beguiling Song. The Lady in Green sings a magical melody.
Every humanoid within 300 ft. of the lady that can hear the
song must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be
charmed until the song ends. The lady must take a bonus
action on her subsequent turns to continue singing. She
can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the lady is
incapacitated.
While charmed by the lady, a target is incapacitated. If
the charmed target is more than 5 ft. away from the lady,
they must move on their turn towards the lady by the most
direct route. Whenever a charmed creature takes damage,
it can repeat the saving throw. A creature who is charmed
can also repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the effect
ends on it, and that creature is immune to the lady’s luring
song for the next 24 hours.

If you survive the encounter, then go to C16.

52

C16 - Inside the Lady’s Cave
The pendant on the Lady in Green’s necklace is a
green gem encasing a small white flower. You can
feel a strong magical aura emanating from the
object, likely the kind of magic Shandalar might
require at his home. As you reach down to examine
it, the chain of the necklace snakes around your
arm, the metal winding itself around you until
the necklace rests comfortably around your neck.
You feel a surge of energy course through you,
and a faint glow appears around your hands. You
look down in wonder and watch your garments
transform, turning the same dark vivid green as the
Lady’s dress.
Note the following trait on your character sheet:
Fey-Touched. You now wield part of the Lady in
Green’s power.
Having survived quite an adventure, and armed
with the Lady in Green’s necklace and some of
her fey power, you begin the long journey back to
Shandalar’s home. Go to Chapter 4.

53

Chapter Four: What Comes Next
After a journey filled with trials and tribulations,
you finally arrive back where you started your
quest. Like before, the ladder up to Shandalar’s
floating home unravels itself, inviting you up.
Climbing back onto the deck of his ship-turnedhome, the weird wizard himself shuffles over to
meet you excitedly.
With the help of the Lady in Green’s power, you are
able to revive the nature magic in the caverns below
Shandalar’s home and cultivate his mushrooms.
Satisfied with your work, Shandalar rewards you
with the 200 gold pieces as promised in the job
posting. And with your quest completed, the wizard
shoos you away, eager to continue his work to grow
his mushrooms.
If only he knew everything you went through to help
him with his weird mushrooms.
As you stand on the outskirts of Ulgoth’s Beard
alone, you think about your journey from
Shandalar’s home to the Lady in Green’s cavern,
and then to hell and back again. And while you
know that your adventure has finally come to an
end, you can’t help but think this is the beginning
of an even bigger story.

Playing Descent Into Avernus
You may decide to treat To Hell and Back Again,
your character’s first big adventure, as a prologue
or prequel to Wizard of the Coast’s epic campaign
Baldur’s Gate: Descent Into Avernus. If you do,
your character will begin Descent Into Avernus
more powerful than a normal first level character.
Work with your DM to come up with a plan that
makes the beginning of your next campaign fun and
balanced for everyone at the table. Some options
include:
If you used this adventure’s option to set your
character’s hit points to their potential maximum
for their level, re-roll your character’s hit points
normally before beginning your next adventure.
Reduce all characters in the party to 1st level,
but allow them to retain any traits marked during
this adventure. Any magic items in the characters’
inventories, except for a Crystal of Identify and
Lulu’s Song, lose their special properties after 24
hours of them leaving Avernus and the Cloakwood,
and are no longer magical.
Allow all characters in the party to remain at
3rd level, retaining any traits marked during this
adventure and one magic item per character. Scale
up the Challenge Rating of all encounters that
take place before the characters reach Avernus by
increasing the number of enemies present, dealing
maximum damage to characters, or by other
means. Additionally, characters only receive one
quarter the normal experience points until they
reach Avernus.

Destiny, Consequences, and Future
Adventures
Being a true adventurer means making hard
choices, and dealing with the consequences of
your actions. Many of the choices you made in this
adventure, and the outcomes you experienced,
will have a lasting effect on your character in their
many adventures to come.
• If you, or your party, finished the adventure
with 4 or 5 Destiny points remaining, then
the exploits of your deeds in Avernus reach
far across Faerûn, and any individuals or
organizations with an interest in fighting the
forces of hell may approach you to work with
them. For as long as you maintain a good public
reputation, you gain advantage on all Charisma
(Persuasion) checks against NPCs who are
dedicated to fighting devils and their servants.

54

• If you, or your party, finished the adventure
with 2 or 3 Destiny points remaining, you have
survived your harrowing adventure relatively
unscarred. However, during nights where
a full moon can be seen, you find yourself
haunted by the harrowing memories of your
time in Avernus. Once per such a night, at
your or a DM’s discretion, you must make
a DC 13 Charisma saving throw, or suffer
from debilitating flashbacks that give you
disadvantage on all ability checks and attack
rolls for one hour.
• If you, or your party, finished the adventure
with 0 or 1 Destiny points remaining, you find
that your flesh has been branded by the sign of
Zariel: a flaming sword wreathed by a dark halo.
The location of the tattoo is up to the player.
The first time each day that a devil is within 100
feet of a branded character, the brand begins
to burn with a hellish light, dealing 2d6 fire
damage. Devils, celestials, and their followers
who see the sign of Zariel know of its meaning
and purpose: the Archdevil is watching the
marked character for some unknowable reason.

If you have any of the following traits marked on
your character sheet, note their long-term effects,
bonds, and flaws on your character sheet. Many
of these traits will provide you, or your Dungeon
Master, with story hooks that you can explore in
the future.
Red-Handed. Because you were cursed by
Shandalar, you will have difficulty stealing or
taking anything that isn’t yours until you lift the
curse. The curse can be lifted with the help of
a powerful mage, who may demand a favor for
payment, or via the Remove Curse spell or similar
magic.
Lulu Drank. Because you did not stop Lulu from
drinking the waters of the River Styx and warn her
of their forgetful magics, her amnesia continues
to get worse. If you ever meet Lulu again on future
adventures, she will not remember you at all. It is
possible that you might help her recall your time
together in Avernus, especially if you bring her to
locations that you previously explored.
Lulu’s BFF. You helped the hollyphant Lulu
remember bits and pieces of her past, reminded
her of her quest to help the Archdevil Zariel find
redemption, and saved her from drinking the water
from the River Styx. Congratulations! You’re now
Lulu’s Best-Friend-Forever.

If you meet Lulu again during future adventures,
she will do everything in her power to help and
protect you, and you will have advantage on
all Charisma saving throws made while in her
presence.
Sold Your Soul. You bartered your own soul in
exchange for safe passage out of Avernus. When
your character dies, they cannot be resurrected by
any creature other than T’an-Mo. Upon death, your
soul is forfeit to T’an-mo and you will serve her in
whatever manner she sees fit. You are unable to
act against her, disobey her orders, or otherwise
scheme to nullify your contract. In exchange, T’anMo is unable to hasten your death or interfere with
your life in any way until you die.
Once T’an-Mo is in possession of your soul, she will
send your ghost out to draw other prospective souls
to her tower, and may have you act as her emissary
or do other awful deeds at her behest. The only way
your soul may be freed is if another character kills
T’an-Mo, but you are unable to scheme to make
that come to pass. You may work with your DM
to find a loophole in your contract, but doing so
will forever make you T’an-Mo’s Mortal Enemy and
make you vulnerable to all damage she deals to you
in an encounter.
Damned. You bartered Lulu’s soul in exchange for
safe passage out of Avernus, betraying the closest
thing to a friend you had while in hell. You watched
the devil T’an-mo murder Lulu and claim her soul.
This has left you permanently damned for your
actions: celestial beings, good-aligned clerics, and
other such creatures will notice the dark stain left
on your soul, and will be wary of trusting you.
If you encounter Lulu’s ghost wandering in or out
of Avernus, where it serves at T’an-mo’s beck and
call, it will be a sad and defeated reflection of the
optimistic hollyphant you remember. The ghost
will not be able to act against you, but will openly
despise you and judge you for your evil actions. You
may yet find redemption, should you free Lulu’s
ghost from T’an-Mo, and make further amends for
what you have done.
Reaper of Souls. You signed a contract with the
devil T’an-Mo that allowed you to escape Avernus.
In exchange, each year on the anniversary of the
day you escaped, you must ritualistically murder
an innocent person and offer their soul to T’anMo. To do so, you must look them in the eye, call
on T’an-Mo by name, and then cut out their heart.
The sacrifice must be a good-aligned (innocent)
sentient being with an intelligence of 8 or higher.
These ritualistic murders are bound to draw undue

55

attention towards you, and will complicate your
life as an adventurer, particularly should anyone
discover your heinous deeds.
If you fail to sacrifice a soul to the devil on the
anniversary of signing your contract, you will suffer
a heart attack at midnight, die, and your soul will
be forfeited to T’an-Mo for all eternity. Additionally,
you may not attempt to directly harm T’an-Mo in
any way for the remainder of your mortal life.
T’an-Mo’s Mortal Enemy. You crossed T’anMo and refused to bargain with her. Though you
survived the encounter and escaped with your life,
devils like T’an-Mo are powerful enemies and live
for a long time. T’an-Mo will send her servants
after you on quests of revenge, and while they may
attack you, T’an-Mo would much rather them cause
suffering to the people you care about than to you
directly. After all, breaking your spirit will make
your soul all the more satisfying when T’an-Mo
finally claims it.
Should you return to Avernus, T’an-Mo’s revenge
will become relentless, and the devil will attempt
to destroy you and steal your soul for all eternity.
Finding and eradicating T’an-mo is the only way
you will ever truly be free from her wrath.
Delivered the Flagon. You did precisely what the
oddball wizard Shandalar asked of you, something
that he is very appreciative of. Shandalar is likely
to offer you future jobs because of your attention
to detail, and may even ask that you aid him in
cleaning out his mushroom caves. If you continue
to work for Shandalar, he is likely to become quite
fond of you, and will make a very resourceful ally in
your burgeoning career as an adventurer.
The Lady Drank Ichor. Because the Lady in Green
drank the demon ichor you offered her, she is now
a strange being who is a cross between both fey and
fiend, with the magics of each. With her newfound
ability to travel freely between Avernus and the
Material plane, the Lady in Green is now even more
powerful than before. It’s possible that your actions
will allow her to wreak havoc across planes, and
that you will have to deal with the consequences of
her threat in later adventures.
Made the Lady Remember. You reminded the Lady
in Green, a chaotic and dangerous fey creature, of
the value of humanity and being a good person.
Because of your encounter, she believes that there
may yet be hope to redeem the Archdevil Zariel.
Should you attempt to redeem Zariel during your
future adventures, the Lady in Green will do what
is within her power to help you. Because of the
Lady’s intimate relationship with Zariel, Zariel may

be more willing to listen to you, and may stay her
hand at destroying you outright.
You may call on the Lady in Green’s aid in Avernus,
and she will come to your aid for one hour. If she
is in your presence while you attempt to convince
Zariel to redeem herself in the final chapter of
Descent Into Avernus, reduce the DC of your
Charisma (Persuasion) check to do so by 5.
Fey-Sworn. Because you made a deal with the Lady
in Green, you now owe her a favor that she can call
on at any time. Fey do not take deals or bargains
lightly, and the Lady in Green will leverage this in
her favor, likely at the most inconvenient time for
your character. If any other fey creature sees the
mark on your arm, they will know exactly who you
owe a favor to, and may also try to trick you into
similar bargains.
Fey-Touched. Because you now wield part of the
Lady in Green’s power, you are no longer entirely
mortal. Fey creatures will treat you as one of their
own kind. Some more devious fey creatures may
attempt to wrest the Lady’s necklace from you by
force or other trickery.
Three times per day, you are able to cast Speak
with Plants without spending a spell slot. However,
if the pendant is ever removed from your neck,
you must make a successful DC 16 Constitution
saving throw, or immediately die. You can remove
the pendant safely with the Remove Curse spell, or
similar magic. Doing so may require you to seek out
the help of a powerful mage, who is likely to ask for
a dangerous favor in return for their aid.
If you would like to see how your outcomes stack up
against other players who have played through this
adventure, please fill out this online form! If you wish to
receive news about new releases from the designers of
this adventure (never spam!), you may sign up for future
notifications here.

About the Designers
Donathin Frye is an avid adventure writer who has
worked for Modiphius, Petersen Games, Mage Hand
Press, Saturday Morning Scenarios, and other wonderful
publishers. He’s also a professional Dungeon Master and
TRPG streamer. You can find out more by checking out
his Patreon and following him on Twitter!
Kienna Shaw is a TRPG creator who designs indie
games, creates community resources, and streams
games on Twitch. You can find out more by checking out
her Patreon and following her on Twitter!

56

Chapter Five: Appendix
Items and Equipment
Amulet of Proof against Detection and Location

Javelin of Lightning

Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)

Weapon (javelin), uncommon

While wearing this amulet, you are hidden from
divination magic. You can’t be targeted by such
magic or perceived through magical scrying
sensors.

This javelin is a magic weapon. When you hurl
it and speak its command word, it transforms
into a bolt of lightning, forming a line 5 feet wide
that extends out from you to a target within 120
feet. Each creature in the line excluding you and
the target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving
throw, taking 4d6 lightning damage on a failed
save, and half as much damage on a successful
one. The lightning bolt turns back into a javelin
when it reaches the target. Make a ranged weapon
attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes
damage from the javelin plus 4d6 lightning damage.

Ancient Greatsword
Weapon (greatsword), rare
You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls
made with Sir Albin’s magic weapon. Each time you
swing the greatsword, you feel in your chest the
pang of unrequited love, and unresolved grief.
Crystal of Identify
Crystal, uncommon
This crystal has 4 charges. While holding it, you
can use an action and expand 1 charge to cast
the identify spell. When the crystal has no more
charges, its magic is spent, and it becomes a
normal gem worth 50 gold pieces.
Elemental Gem (Water)
Wondrous item, uncommon
This gem contains a mote of elemental energy.
When you use an action to break the gem, a water
elemental is summoned (see Appendix, page 62)
that obeys your commands, and the gem’s magic
is lost. The elemental disappears back to its own
plane after 1 hour, when it travels through a
dimension portal, when its hit points are reduced
to 0, or when it is banished by Banishment or a
similar spell.

The javelin’s property can’t be used again until the
next dawn. In the meantime, the javelin can still be
used as a magic weapon.
Proficiency with a javelin allows you to add your
proficiency bonus to the attack roll for any attack
you make with it.
Lulu’s Song
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
When you are attuned to this sphere of multicolored sparkles, you can often hear the angelic
voice of Lulu singing a hopeful song about two
distance friends. You have advantage on saving
throws against being charmed or frightened, and if
you are on the same plane as Lulu, she will know
your exact location.
If you attempt to convince Zariel to redeem herself
in the final chapter of Descent Into Avernus
and give her Lulu’s Song as a gift, you will have
advantage on your Charisma (Persuasion) check.
Wand of Shield
Wand, uncommon (requires attunement)
This wand has 4 charges. While holding it, you can
use your reaction, and expend 1 charge, to speak
its command word and cast the shield spell.
The wand regains 1d4+1 expended charges daily at
dawn. If you expend the wand’s last charge, roll a
d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is
destroyed.

57

Bestiary and NPCs

Giant Cloakwood Spider

Kobold Tunnel-Dweller

Large beast, unaligned

Medium humanoid (kobold), lawful evil

Armor Class 12

Armor Class 13

Hit Points 15 (2d10+4)

Hit Points 5 (2d6-2)

Speed 40 ft., climb 40 ft.

Speed 30 ft.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

14 (+2)

14 (+2)

15 (+2)

6 (-2)

12 (+1)

4 (-3)

8 (-1)

16 (+3)

8 (-1)

8 (-1)

6 (-2)

8 (-1)

Skills Perception +3, Stealth +6

Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 8

Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive perception 13

Languages Common, Draconic

Languages -

Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)

Challenge 1 /4 (50 XP)

Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces,
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to
make an ability check.

Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the kobold has
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.

Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the spider knows

Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack roll
against a creature if at least one of the kobold’s allies is
within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.

Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions
caused by webbing.

Actions

the exact location of any other creature in contact with the
same web.

Actions

Crude Spear. Melee or Ranged weapon attack: +1 to hit,
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d6-1)
piercing damage.

Bite. Melee weapon attack:+4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage, and the target
must take a DC 8 Constitution saving throw, or become
paralyzed until the end of its next turn.

Torch. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one
target. Hit: 1 fire damage and the target has disadvantage
on all attack rolls and ability checks until the end of their
next turn.

Web (Recharge 5-6). +4 to hit, range 15/30 ft., one creature.
Hit: the target becomes cocooned by webbing and is
restrained and blinded. As an action, the restrained target
can make either a DC 11 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity
(Acrobatics) check, bursting free from the cocoon on a
success.

58

The Lady in Green

Madcap Marauder

Medium fey, chaotic neutral

Small fey, chaotic evil

Armor Class 14 (natural armor)

Armor Class 11

Hit Points 52 (7d8+21)

Hit Points 7 (2d6)

Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft.

Speed 30 ft.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

8 (-1)

14 (+2)

16 (+3)

12 (+1)

14 (+2)

18 (+4)

Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +5, Insight +6, Perception +6, Persuasion +6
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, paralyzed,
poisoned, restrained
Senses truesight 120ft., passive perception 16
Languages Common, Celestial, Infernal, Sylvan
Challenge 2 (450 XP)

Innate Spellcasting. The Lady in Green’s innate spellcasting
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell
attacks). She can innately cast the following spells,
requiring no material components:
At will: Calm Emotions, Entangle, Detect Evil and Good,

Dancing Lights, Eldritch Blast, Faerie Fire, Minor Illusion,
Silent Image

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

11 (+0)

8 (-1)

6 (-2)

10 (+0)

Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 8
Damage Resistances poison
Damage Immunities fire
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)

Self-Combustion. When the madcap’s current hit points are
less than their maximum, at the end of its turn it explodes
in a small ball of hellfire and dies. Any creatures within
10 feet of the explosion must make a successful DC 12
Dexterity saving throw or take 4 (1d8) fire damage.
Actions

Scythe. Melee weapon attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage.

Actions

Eldritch Blast. Ranged spell attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft.,
one creature. Hit: 5 (1d10) force damage.
Dark Kiss. Melee weapon attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature that is restrained or incapacitated. Hit: 3 piercing
damage and 2 (1d4) necrotic damage, and the target loses
points of Constitution equal to the necrotic damage dealt.
If the target’s Constitution is reduced to 0, they fall asleep
and peacefully die. Constitution lost this way can only be
regained by taking a long rest, or by Greater Restoration or
a similar spell.
Beguiling Song. The Lady in Green sings a magical melody.
Every humanoid within 300 ft. of the lady that can hear the
song must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be
charmed until the song ends. The lady must take a bonus
action on her subsequent turns to continue singing. She
can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the lady is
incapacitated.
While charmed by the lady, a target is incapacitated. If
the charmed target is more than 5 ft. away from the lady,
they must move on their turn towards the lady by the most
direct route. Whenever a charmed creature takes damage,
it can repeat the saving throw. A creature who is charmed
can also repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the effect
ends on it, and that creature is immune to the lady’s luring
song for the next 24 hours.

59

Sir Albin, the Ghostly Knight

Swarm of Wild Boggarts

Medium undead (specter), lawful good

Medium swarm of small fey, chaotic neutral

Armor Class 20 (plate mail and shield)

Armor Class 11

Hit Points 22 (5d8)

Hit Points 22 (5d8)

Speed 0 ft., fly 20 ft. (hover)

Speed 25 ft., climb 25 ft.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

14 (+2)

8 (-1)

11 (+0)

12 (+1)

16 (+3)

16 (+3)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

10 (+0)

8 (-1)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

Skills Athletics +4, Insight +7

Skills Perception +3, Stealth +3

Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder;
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical
attacks

Senses truesight 120 ft., passive perception 13

Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened,
exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
prone, unconsciou

Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, slashing
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive perception 12
Languages Common, Celestial
Challenge 1 (200 XP)

Incorporeal Movement. Sir Albin can move through other

creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. He
takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an
object.

Great Swordsman. Sir Albin can wield a greatsword in one

Pile On. Any creature that ends its turn in a space occupied
by the swarm must succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity saving
throw, or be knocked prone.
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space
and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any
opening large enough for a small creature. The swarm can’t
regain hit points or gain temporary hit points.

hand.

Actions

Actions

Bite. Melee weapon attack: +3 to hit, reach 0 ft., one
creature in the swarm’s space. Hit: 8 (2d6+1) piercing
damage, or 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage if the swarm has half
of its hit points or fewer.

Ancient Greatsword. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach
5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) slashing damage.

60

T’an Mo

Wasteland Bandit Brains, Robb

Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil

Medium humanoid (dwarf), neutral evil

Armor Class 11 (14 with mage armor)

Armor Class 12 (padded cloth)

Hit Points 60 (11d8+11)

Hit Points 13 (3d8)

Speed 30 ft.

Speed 25 ft.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

16 (+3)

14 (+2)

18 (+4)

8 (-1)

13 (+1)

10 (+0)

15 (+2)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

Saving Throws Con +3, Cha +6

Skills History +4, Perception +3

Skills Arcana +5, Deception +6, Insight +6, Perception +4,
Persuasion +6

Damage Resistances poison

Damage Resistances fire; bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered

Languages Common

Condition Immunities charmed, frightened
Senses darkvision 60ft., passive perception 14

Senses passive perception 13
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Dwarven Resilience. Robb has advantage on saving throws

Languages Common, Infernal

against poison.

Challenge 3 (700 XP)

Shoot ‘Em While They’re Down. Robb does not have
disadvantage on ranged weapon attacks made against

Devil’s Bargain. Any creature that has signed a contract
with T’an-Mo that finds and abuses a loophole to escape
the contract, or otherwise has the trait T’an-Mo’s Mortal
Enemy marked on their character sheet, is vulnerable to all
damage dealt by T’an-Mo.

prone creatures.

Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede T’an-Mo’s

darkvision.

Innate Spellcasting. T’an-Mo’s innate spellcasting ability

is Charisma (spell save DC 14). She can innately cast the
following spells, requiring no material components:

At will: Burning Hands, Detect Evil and Good, Disguise Self,

Mage Armor, Minor Illusion, Misty Step

Actions

Longsword. Melee weapon attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 3 (1d8-1) slashing damage.
Hand Crossbow. Ranged weapon attack: +3 to hit, range
30/120 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage, and
the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving
throw or be poisoned. The target can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on
itself on a success.

2/day: Banishment, Teleportation
Actions

Burning Hands. Each creature in a 15-foot cone of T’anMo must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. T’an-mo can cast burning
hands as a reaction when a character within 5 ft. of her
uses their movement to move further away, but the spell
can only target the moving character.

61

Water Elemental

Wasteland Bandit Muscle, Amelia
Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil

Large elemental, neutral

Armor Class 15 (half plate)

Armor Class 14 (natural armor)

Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)

Hit Points 114 (12d10+48)

Speed 30 ft.

Speed 30 ft., swim 90 ft.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

16 (+3)

10 (+0)

12 (+1)

8 (-1)

8 (-1)

10 (+0)

Skills Athletics +5
Senses passive perception 9
Languages Common
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Poor Morale. If Amelia’s bandit ally Robb is defeated, the

creature who defeated Robb may immediately use a free
action to make a DC 10 Charisma (Intimidate) check. If the
check succeeds, Amelia is unable to attack and attempts to
flee on her turn. If the check fails, Amelia takes 1d6 psychic
damage, but will continue to fight until she is defeated.
Actions

Longsword. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one

target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.

Shield Bash. Melee weapon attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) bludgeoning damage. If the target is
a Medium or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 13
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone and have their
movement reduced to 0 until the start of their next turn.

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

18 (+4)

14 (+2)

18 (+4)

5 (-3)

10 (+0)

8 (-1)

Damage Resistances acid; bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, grappled, paralyzed,
petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive perception 10
Languages Aquan
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)

Water Form. The elemental can enter a hostile creature’s
space and stop there. It can move through a space as
narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
Freeze. If the elemental takes cold damage, it partially
freezes; its speed is reduced by 20 feet until the end of its
next turn.
Actions

Multiattack The elemental makes two slam attacks.
Slam. Melee weapon attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature. Hit: 13 (2d8+4) bludgeoning damage.
Whelm (Recharge 5-6). Each creature in the elemental’s
space must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a
failure, a target takes 13 (2d8+4) bludgeoning damage. If it
is Large or smaller, it is also grappled (escape DC 14). Until
this grapple ends, the target is restrained and unable to
breathe unless it can breathe water. If the saving throw
is successful, the target is pushed out of the elemental’s
space.
The elemental can grapple one Large creature or up to two
Medium or smaller creatures at one time. At the start of
each of the elemental’s turns, each target grappled by it
takes 13 (2d8+4) bludgeoning damage. A creature within
5 feet of the elemental can pull a creature or object out of
it by taking an action to make a DC 14 Strength (Athletics)
check and succeeding.

62

Bryn, the Virtuous Vagabond
Lawful Good Human Rogue, they/them
Bryn is a deft archer and fighter that dual-wields the
curved shortswords often used by their bedine tribe.
However, Bryn has become sickly and vulnerable
with old age. They prefer to avoid direct conflict when
possible, especially when they are without allies. In an
adventuring party, Bryn’s many talents and pantherlike reflexes make them extremely valuable both in and
out of combat.

Bryn does not recall their original name, having
forced it from their mind along with many other
unwanted memories of their youth. They were once
a member of a nomadic bedine tribe in Anauroch,
the Great Sand Sea. Their tribe worshipped the
four winds and preached that water and land did
not belong to individuals, but were meant for all
people to share. While Bryn still begins each day
by praying to the four winds, and believes that all
people should share their food, water and shelter -other aspects of their tribe’s customs offended them
to their core. They could not reconcile their tribe’s
casual attitude towards misogyny, patriarchal
rulership, or war.
At the age of nineteen, Bryn took their few
belongings, then left the Great Sand Sea and
their people behind. Claiming the name Bryn for
themself, they set out to see the world and learn
of different people and different cultures. Their
decades of travel have taught Bryn one universal
truth: people everywhere suffer inequality and
oppression, and they all deserve better. Because of
Bryn’s youth spent with their bedine tribe under
the yolk of Netherese mages, and several more
recent years living in the undead arcanist-ruled
nation of Thay, they have also developed a strong
distrust of magic and those that wield it. Their
greatest fear is that they will become enthralled
by magic, and lose the sense of self that they have
fought so hard to claim.
Bryn moves from city to city and town to town,
always trying to make the world a better place in
small, quiet ways. Despite being generally polite
and respectful of other cultures, they are willing to
break the law if they believe that those in power are
corrupt. Sometimes, helping others requires Bryn
to steal from oppressors to give to those in need,
a task well-suited to their skills. Bryn’s greatest
weakness is a helpless romantic streak that leads
to them becoming intimately entangled with new
people from all walks of life, everywhere they go.
Too often, their vulnerability and empathy allows
them to be taken advantage of.

DESTINY

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

ITEMS
Arrows
Leather armor
Longbow
Shortsword x2
Rope (hempen)
Tinderbox
Torch
Infernal War Machine
TRAITS

63

Bryn, the Virtuous Vagabond
Human Rogue (level 1)
STRENGTH

+1
+1

SAVING THROW

7

ATHLETICS

+1

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

13
DEXTERITY

+3

+5
+5
+7
+7

1d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

TEMP HP

STEALTH

-1

SAVING THROW

30 ft

9

AC

SPEED

+3

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

11
WISDOM

+2
14
CHARISMA

+2
15

DAMAGE

Longbow

+3

1d8+3 piercing

Shortsword

+5

1d6+3 piercing

Off-hand
Shortsword

+5

1d6 piercing

Unarmed

+3

2 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

14

+0

ATK BONUS

FAIL

-1

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

SUCCESS

16
CONSTITUTION

HIT DICE

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+2
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+4
+2
+4
+2

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+2
+2
+2

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Light Armor
Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Hand, Longsword, Rapier,
Shortsword, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Sneak Attack

INSIGHT

Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature
you hit with an attack with a finesse or ranged weapon if you have
advantage on the attack roll. You don’t need advantage on the
attack roll if another enemy of the target is within 5 ft. of it, that
enemy isn’t incapacitated, and you don’t have disadvantage on the
attack roll.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Thieves’ Cant
You have learned thieves’ cant, a secret mix of dialect, jargon,
and code that allows you to hide messages in seemingly normal
conversation. It takes four times longer to convey such a message
than it does to speak the same idea plainly.
Silvered Shortswords
Bryn’s shortswords are forged from silver and are more effective
than other nonmagical weapons against some creatures.
Language Proficiency
Common, Celestial, and Giant
Tool Proficiency
Flute and Thieves’ Tools

64

Bryn, the Virtuous Vagabond
Human Rogue (level 2)
STRENGTH

+1
+1

SAVING THROW

14

ATHLETICS

+1

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

13
DEXTERITY

+3

+5
+5
+7
+7

2d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

TEMP HP

STEALTH

-1

SAVING THROW

30 ft

9

AC

SPEED

+3

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

11
WISDOM

+2
14
CHARISMA

+2
15

DAMAGE

Longbow

+3

1d8+3 piercing

Shortsword

+5

1d6+3 piercing

Off-hand
Shortsword

+5

1d6 piercing

Unarmed

+3

2 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

14

+0

ATK BONUS

FAIL

-1

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

SUCCESS

16
CONSTITUTION

HIT DICE

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+2
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+4
+2
+4
+2

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+2
+2
+2

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Light Armor
Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Hand, Longsword, Rapier,
Shortsword, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Sneak Attack

INSIGHT

SURVIVAL

Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature
you hit with an attack with a finesse or ranged weapon if you have
advantage on the attack roll, or if another (not incapacitated) enemy
of the target is within 5 ft. of it.

SAVING THROW

Thieves’ Cant

DECEPTION

You have learned thieves’ cant. You have learned thieves’ cant,
a secret mix of dialect, jargon, and code that allows you to hide
messages in seemingly normal conversation.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION

INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Cunning Action
You can take a bonus action on each of your turns to take the Dash,
Disengage, or Hide action.
Silvered Shortswords
Bryn’s shortswords are forged from silver and are more effective
than other nonmagical weapons against some creatures.
Language Proficiency
Common, Celestial, and Giant
Tool Proficiency
Flute and Thieves’ Tools

65

Bryn, the Virtuous Vagabond
Human Rogue (level 3)
STRENGTH

+1
+1

SAVING THROW

21

ATHLETICS

+1

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

13
DEXTERITY

+3

+5
+5
+7
+7

3d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

STEALTH

-1

SAVING THROW

30 ft

9

AC

SPEED

+3

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

11
WISDOM

+2
14
CHARISMA

+2
15

DAMAGE

Longbow

+3

1d8+3 piercing

Shortsword

+5

1d6+3 piercing

Off-hand
Shortsword

+5

1d6 piercing

Unarmed

+3

2 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

14

+0

ATK BONUS

FAIL

-1

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

SUCCESS

16
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+2
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+4
+2
+4
+2

SAVING THROW

+2
+2
+2
+2
+2

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Light Armor
Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Hand, Longsword, Rapier,
Shortsword, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Sneak Attack

INSIGHT
PERCEPTION

Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with
an attack with a finesse or ranged weapon if you have advantage on the attack
roll, or if another (not incapacitated) enemy of the target is within 5 ft. of it.

SURVIVAL

Thieves’ Cant

SAVING THROW

You have learned thieves’ cant.

DECEPTION

Cunning Action

INTIMIDATION

You can take a bonus action on each of your turns to take the Dash, Disengage,
or Hide action.

MEDICINE

PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Fast Hands (Thief)
You can use the bonus action granted by your Cunning Action to make a Sleight
of Hand check, use your thieves’ tools to disarm a trap or open a lock, or take
the Use an Object action.
Second-Story Work (Thief)
Climbing no longer costs you extra movement, and when you make a running
jump, the distance you cover increases by +3 feet.
Silvered Shortswords
Bryn’s shortswords are more effective than other nonmagical weapons.
Language Proficiency
Common, Celestial, and Giant
Tool Proficiency

Flute and Thieves’ Tools

66

Ekkja, the Retired Raider
Neutral Half-Orc Fighter, she/her
Despite her time spent as a pirate raider, Ekkja
does not play well with others when a fight breaks
out. She tends to take the most straight-forward
approach to conflict, and her combination of
speed, might, and skill with her double-bladed
greataxe make her a terrifying foe during combat,
even when she is fighting alone. In an adventuring party, Ekkja’s prowess may prove useful, but
her proclivity towards rushing in no matter the
cost can also make her a liability to the safety of
others.
In the language of the orcish warband in which
she was raised, Ekkja means “the silent leaf”, a
name given to her because of her uncanny stealth
compared to the other soldiers in the warband.
Ekkja was always the runt of her warband, even
amongst the other half-orcs, and was constantly
bullied by her kin. No matter how big or strong
the bully was, however, she always fought back,
never allowing an insult to pass. After a few years
of fighting with the band, Ekkja abandoned the
unit and joined up with a Waterdhavian pirate
captain named Dominic. She spent several years
at sea as part of his crew, where she was treated
with far more respect than she ever received in her
warband. As first-mate of The Blind Lady, she and
Captain Dominic raided small villages and had
many adventures along the Sword Coast.
Yet in all of Ekkja’s time fighting, either in a
warband or as a pirate, she never felt happy.
Despite how good of a warrior she was, she came
to loathe needless violence and hurting innocent
people. Two years ago, Ekkja parted ways with
Captain Dominic and set her anchor in Baldur’s
Gate. Though she harbors little guilt for her violent
life, Ekkja is much happier now: she works as a
gnome merchant’s private guard during the day,
and spends her time drinking ale, making friends,
and wooing free-spirited maidens in the dockside
taverns by night.
Stubborn, crass and darkly funny, Ekkja has
become a very popular tavern regular and is wellliked by Seepo-Sparklegem-Smoochcobbler, the
merchant she works for. Seepo has suggested to her
that she is a good guard, but may be better suited
for professional adventuring. After all, whose life is
full of more fun, ale, and free-spirited maidens than
an adventurer’s? Ekkja has taken the merchant’s
advice to heart, and is eager to once again pursue a
new start, and a happier life.

DESTINY

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

ITEMS
Chain Mail
Throwing dagger
Greataxe
Rope (hempen)
Tinderbox
Torch
Infernal War Machine
TRAITS

67

Ekkja, the Retired Raider
Half-Orc Fighter (level 1)
STRENGTH

+5
+5

SAVING THROW

13

ATHLETICS

+3

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

16
DEXTERITY

+1

+1
+1
+3
+3

1d10

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND
STEALTH

+5

SAVING THROW

16

AC

SPEED

+1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+1
12

Dagger

+5

1d4+3 piercing

Greataxe

+5

1d12+3 slashing

Unarmed

+5

4 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

30 ft

11

DAMAGE

FAIL

16

+0

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS

+3

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

13
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+0
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
+1
-1

SAVING THROW

+1
+1
+3
+1
+1

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields
Weapon Proficiency
Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Great Weapon Fighting

INSIGHT

You can reroll a 1 or 2 on damage dice with melee weapons wielded with two
hands.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION

Second Wind
Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + 1 HP.
Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.

PERFORMANCE

Savage Attacks

PERSUASION

When you score a critical hit, roll one of the dice an additional time and add it
to the extra damage.
Language Proficiency
Common, Orc
Tool Proficiency
Dice Set, Vehicles (Land)

68

Ekkja, the Retired Raider
Half-Orc Fighter (level 2)
STRENGTH

+5
+5

SAVING THROW

26

ATHLETICS

+3

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

16
DEXTERITY

+1

+1
+1
+3
+3

2d10

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND
STEALTH

+5

SAVING THROW

16

AC

SPEED

+1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+1
12

Dagger

+5

1d4+3 piercing

Greataxe

+5

1d12+3 slashing

Unarmed

+5

4 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

30 ft

11

DAMAGE

FAIL

16

+0

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS

+3

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

13
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+0
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
+1
-1

SAVING THROW

+1
+1
+3
+1
+1

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields
Weapon Proficiency
Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Great Weapon Fighting

INSIGHT

You can reroll a 1 or 2 on damage dice with melee weapons wielded with two
hands.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Second Wind
Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + 1 HP.
Action Surge
You can take one additional action on your turn. This can be used 1 times per
short rest.
Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.
Savage Attacks
When you score a critical hit, roll one of the dice an additional time and add it
to the extra damage.
Language Proficiency
Common, Orc
Tool Proficiency
Dice Set, Vehicles (Land)

69

Ekkja, the Retired Raider
Half-Orc Fighter (level 3)
STRENGTH

+5
+5

SAVING THROW

39

ATHLETICS

+3

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

16
DEXTERITY

+1

+1
+1
+3
+3

3d10

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND
STEALTH

+5

SAVING THROW

16

AC

SPEED

+1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+1
12

Dagger

+5

1d4+3 piercing

Greataxe

+5

1d12+3 slashing

Unarmed

+5

4 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

30 ft

11

DAMAGE

FAIL

16

+0

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS

+3

INTELLIGENCE

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

13
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

+0
+0
+0
+0
+0
+0

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
+1
-1

SAVING THROW

+1
+1
+3
+1
+1

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields
Weapon Proficiency
Martial Weapons, Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Great Weapon Fighting

INSIGHT

You can reroll a 1 or 2 on damage dice with melee weapons wielded with two
hands.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Second Wind
Once per short rest, you can use a bonus action to regain 1d10 + 1 HP.
Action Surge
You can take one additional action on your turn. This can be used 1 times per
short rest.
Improved Critical (Champion)
Your weapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20.
Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.
Savage Attacks
When you score a critical hit, roll one of the dice an additional time and add it
to the extra damage.
Language Proficiency
Common, Orc
Tool Proficiency
Dice Set, Vehicles (Land)

70

Mordecai, the Ambitious Archaeologist
Neutral Evil Tiefling Sorcerer, he/him
Mordecai is a sorcerer with a cruel-streak and
much potential, who often relies on his intimidating presence and mind-controlling magic to
diffuse immediate threats to his person. If he
is forced to fight to the death, he has a variety
of combat spells at his disposal, and uses them
strategically to allow him to get the upper-hand on
his enemies. Still, when faced with confrontation,
he prefers to hang back out of harm’s way, making him well suited for adventuring parties that
can overlook his untrustworthy nature.
Mordecai was raised in the ruins of Neverwinter,
and he resents the years his family spent poor and
helpless. He does not blame his family, though, as
it was his father who climbed from the rubble to
establish one of the most wealthy merchant houses
that eventually helped the city of Neverwinter
reclaim its former splendor. The journey of his
youth, from poor to rich, shaped the ambitious
tiefling’s world-view and instilled him with
ambition.
As a young tiefling, Mordecai’s mother raised him
and taught him that he must put his needs and
the needs of his family above all others. Through
her, he learned that her ancestral bloodline granted
him potent magic, if he could learn to wield it.
Mordecai took his mother’s words very seriously,
and has spent his adult life as an archaeologist
with a particular fascination for the occult. He
has ignored romantic entanglements, or long-term
friendships, in his search for artifacts that might
help him untap the magic in his blood and improve
his standing in the world.
Unbeknownst to his parents, who have grown to
disapprove of his frivolous spending and fruitless
“business” ventures, Mordecai is driven by a
recurring dream that he has had since he was five
years old: he has seen himself standing at the top
of a tall tower, lording over an unstoppable army
as Neverwinter’s all-mighty Sorcerer-King. Though
he has never shared his power-hungry dream with
anyone, Mordecai believes it to be his destiny, and
is willing to sacrifice nearly anything to see the
dream become reality. To temper the bouts of anger
and madness that come whenever he wakes from
this dream, the tiefling starts each of his mornings
by writing any new details he noticed during the
dream into a locked journal. He then enjoys several
glasses of red wine, while he reads books of tranquil
poetry to center himself and stay focused on his
goals.

DESTINY

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

ITEMS
Rod
Rope (hempen)
Spear
Tinderbox
Torch

Infernal War Machine
TRAITS

71

Mordecai, the Ambitious Archaeologist
Tiefling Sorcerer (level 1)
+0
+0

STRENGTH

SAVING THROW

8

ATHLETICS

+0

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

10
+2
+2
+2
+2

DEXTERITY

+2

1d6

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

FAIL

+3

SAVING THROW

15

30 ft

12

AC

SPEED

+2

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

+2
14
WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+3
16

+2
+4
+2
+4
+2
+4

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
-1
-1

SAVING THROW

+5
+3
+5
+3
+3

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

DAMAGE

Spear

+0

1d6 piercing

Fire Bolt

+5

1d10 fire

Ray of Frost

+5

1d8 cold

Shocking Grasp

+5

1d8 lightning

Unarmed

+2

1 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

+1

INTELLIGENCE

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS

15
CONSTITUTION

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

STEALTH

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Light, Dagger, Dart,
Quarterstaff, Sling

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Spellcasting

INSIGHT

You can cast known sorcerer spells using CHA as your spellcasting
modifier (Spell DC 13, Spell Attack +5). You can use an arcane focus
as a spellcasting focus.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Dragon Ancestor (Draconic Bloodline)
You have a red dragon as your ancestor. You can speak, read, and
write Draconic and you double your proficiency bonus for CHA
checks involving dragons.
Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.
Hellish Resistance

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS
CANTRIP

1ST LEVEL

2ND LEVEL

You have resistance to fire damage.
Language Proficiency
Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Infernal

Dancing Lights

Charm Person

Fire Bolt

Thunderwave

Ray of Frost
Shocking Grasp
Thaumaturgy

72

Mordecai, the Ambitious Archaeologist
Tiefling Sorcerer (level 2)
+0
+0

STRENGTH

SAVING THROW

16

ATHLETICS

+0

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

10
+2
+2
+2
+2

DEXTERITY

+2

2d6

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

FAIL

+3

SAVING THROW

DEATH SAVES

+1

15

30 ft

12

AC

SPEED

+2

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

INTELLIGENCE

+2
14
WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+3
16

+2
+4
+2
+4
+2
+4

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
-1
-1

SAVING THROW

+5
+3
+5
+3
+3

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

DAMAGE

Spear

+0

1d6 piercing

Fire Bolt

+5

1d10 fire

Ray of Frost

+5

1d8 cold

Shocking Grasp

+5

1d8 lightning

Witch Bolt

+5

1d12 lightning

Unarmed

+2

1 bludgeoning

Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Light, Dagger, Dart,
Quarterstaff, Sling

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Spellcasting

INSIGHT

You can cast known sorcerer spells using CHA as your spellcasting
modifier (Spell DC 13, Spell Attack +5). You can use an arcane focus
as a spellcasting focus.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION
SURVIVAL

Dragon Ancestor (Draconic Bloodline)

INTIMIDATION

You have a red dragon as your ancestor. You can speak, read, and
write Draconic and you double your proficiency bonus for CHA
checks involving dragons.

PERFORMANCE

Font of Magic

PERSUASION

You have 2 sorcery points that you regain when you finish a long
rest. You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots
or sacrifice spell slots to gain additional sorcery points as a bonus
action.

DECEPTION

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS
CANTRIP

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS

15
CONSTITUTION

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

STEALTH

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

1ST LEVEL

2ND LEVEL

Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.
Hellish Resistance

Dancing Lights

Charm Person

Fire Bolt

Thunderwave

You have resistance to fire damage.

Ray of Frost

Witch Bolt

Language Proficiency

Shocking Grasp

Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Infernal

Thaumaturgy
SORCERY POINTS

73

Mordecai, the Ambitious Archaeologist
Tiefling Sorcerer (level 3)
+0
+0

STRENGTH

24

ATHLETICS

+0

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

10
+2
+2
+2
+2

DEXTERITY

+2

3d6

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND
STEALTH

SAVING THROW

DEATH SAVES

+1

15

30 ft

12

AC

SPEED

+2

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

INTELLIGENCE

+2
14
WISDOM

-1
8
CHARISMA

+3
16

DAMAGE

Spear

+0

1d6 piercing

Fire Bolt

+5

1d10 fire

Ray of Frost

+5

1d8 cold

Shocking Grasp

+5

1d8 lightning

Witch Bolt

+5

1d12 lightning

Unarmed

+2

1 bludgeoning

+2
+4
+2
+4
+2
+4

SAVING THROW

-1
-1
-1
-1
-1
-1

SAVING THROW

Spellcasting

ANIMAL HANDLING

You cast sorcerer spells using CHA (Spell DC 13, Spell Attack +5).

SURVIVAL

Font of Magic

+5
+3
+5
+3
+3

SAVING THROW

You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots or sacrifice spell
slots to gain additional sorcery points as a bonus action.

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Weapon Proficiency
Crossbow, Light, Dagger, Dart,
Quarterstaff, Sling

NATURE
RELIGION

INSIGHT
MEDICINE
PERCEPTION

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

Dragon Ancestor (Draconic Bloodline)
You double your proficiency bonus for CHA checks involving dragons.

Twinned Spell (Metamagic)
You can spend sorcery points equal to a spell’s level (1 for a cantrip) to target
a second creature in range with the same spell, as long as the spell at the
level it’s being cast is incapable of targeting more than one creature.
Empowered Spell (Metamagic)

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS

1ST LEVEL

2ND LEVEL

Dancing Lights

Charm Person

Hellish Rebuke

Fire Bolt

Thunderwave

Mirror Image

Ray of Frost

Witch Bolt

CANTRIP

ATK BONUS

SUCCESS
FAIL

+3

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

15
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

SAVING THROW

When you roll damage for a spell, you can spend 1 sorcery point to reroll up
to 3 of the dice. You must use the new rolls and you can use this option even
if you’ve already used another Metamagic option.
Darkvision
You can see in darkness (shades of gray) up to 60 ft.
Hellish Resistance
You have resistance to fire damage.

Shocking Grasp

Infernal Legacy

Thaumaturgy

You can cast hellish rebuke once per long rest.
SORCERY POINTS

Language Proficiency
Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Infernal

74

Myastan Rhogar, the Anarchistic Acolyte
Chaotic Good Dragonborn Cleric, he/him
Myastan Rhogar is a fearsome warrior-priest,
whose strong arm, fiery breath, and holy magic
are banes to any who dare face him. He is unable
to abide injustice, and believes it his duty as a
cleric of Lendys to forcefully enact justice as he
sees fit. While his protective and healing magics
make him formidable alone, in an adventuring
party his magic is life-saving… for those he deems
worthy of his protection.
Rhogar, of the Myastan clan, was dedicated at
birth to serve the dragon-god of justice, Lendys.
For the past sixteen years of his young life, he
has been raised by stern clerics who preach
unbending justice and balance in all things. Yet
Myastan Rhogar has grown angry as he approaches
dragonborn adulthood: he is angry at his parents
for abandoning him, angry at a world full of liars
and injustices, and angry at the leading clerics of
Lendys, too.
Myastan Rhogar has come to believe those who
serve Lendys are so inflexible in their views that
they allow true injustices to go unchecked. He
regards all governments, large religions, noble
houses, and world-leaders as corrupt, hiding behind
the letter of the law so that none may see their
crimes of injustice. Myastan Rhogar’s world-view
has become increasingly anarchistic, and when
he preaches the word of Lendys, he also preaches
that all powerful institutions in the world must be
uprooted if the world is to be made a better place.
His oaths to dedicate his life to doing whatever it
takes to enact true justice and meaningful change
has made him an outcast within his religion. It’s
also made him several influential enemies.
On his sixteenth birthday, Myastan Rhogar was
unofficially exiled from his order and sent, alone
and without any coin or food, to preach to the poor
in Baldur’s Gate. Cursing Mysastan Drakjar, the
High Priest who both raised and then exiled him,
Myastan Rhogar has done everything he can to
make the best of a bad situation. He opened small
chapter in an abandoned warehouse, with daily
services dedicated to what he professes to be
the true word of Lendys. However, poor as he is,
Myastan Rhogar has been forced to take odd jobs
as a healer and adventurer to make ends meet, and
to provide shelter and food to the handful of needy
individuals in Baldur’s Gate that he has come to
consider his flock.

DESTINY

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

ITEMS
Chain Mail
Mace
Reliquary
Shield
Tinderbox

Infernal War Machine
TRAITS

75

Myastan Rhogar, the Anarchistic Acolyte
Dragonborn Cleric (level 1)
+2
+2

STRENGTH

SAVING THROW

10

ATHLETICS

+2

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

14
-1
-1
-1
-1

DEXTERITY

-1

1d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

FAIL

+2

SAVING THROW

18

30 ft

14

AC

SPEED

-1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

+0
10
WISDOM

+2
15
CHARISMA

+2
14

+0
+0
+2
+0
+0
+2

SAVING THROW

+4
+2
+4
+2
+2
+2

SAVING THROW

+4
+2
+2
+2
+4

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Mace

+4

1d6+2 bludgeoning

Guiding Bolt

+4

4d6 radiant

Sacred Flame

DC

1d8 radiant

Breath Weapon

DC

2d6 fire

Unarmed

+4

3 bludgeoning

DEATH SAVES

+2

INTELLIGENCE

DAMAGE

SUCCESS

8
CONSTITUTION

ATK BONUS

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

STEALTH

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields
Weapon Proficiency
Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

ANIMAL HANDLING

Spellcasting

INSIGHT

SURVIVAL

You can cast prepared cleric spells using WIS as your spellcasting
modifier (Spell DC 12, Spell Attack +4) and prepared cleric spells
as rituals if they have the ritual tag. You can use a holy symbol as a
spellcasting focus.

SAVING THROW

Disciple of Life (Life Domain)

DECEPTION

Whenever you use a spell of 1st level or higher to restore HP, the
creature regains additional HP equal to 2 + the spell’s level.

MEDICINE
PERCEPTION

INTIMIDATION
PERFORMANCE
PERSUASION

Resistance (Brass Draconic Ancestry)
You gain resistance to fire damage.
Breath Weapon (Brass Draconic Ancestry)

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS
CANTRIP

1ST LEVEL

Light

Bless

Resistance

Command

Sacred Flame

Cure Wounds

2ND LEVEL

As an action once per short rest, exhale in a 5 by 30 ft. line (DEX DC
12, half damage on success) for 2d6 Fire Damage.
Language Proficiency
Celestial, Common, Draconic, Giant

Guiding Bolt
Healing Word
Protection from
Good and Evil

76

Myastan Rhogar, the Anarchistic Acolyte
Dragonborn Cleric (level 2)
+2
+2

STRENGTH

20

ATHLETICS

+2

CURRENT HP

MAX HP

14
-1
-1
-1
-1

DEXTERITY

-1

2d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND
STEALTH

SAVING THROW

18

30 ft

14

AC

SPEED

-1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

+0
10
WISDOM

+2
15
CHARISMA

+2
14

+4

1d6+2 bludgeoning

Guiding Bolt

+4

4d6 radiant

Sacred Flame

DC

1d8 radiant

Breath Weapon

DC

2d6 fire

Unarmed

+4

3 bludgeoning

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields

+0
+0
+2
+0
+0
+2

SAVING THROW

+4
+2
+4
+2
+2
+2

SAVING THROW

Spellcasting

ANIMAL HANDLING

You can cast prepared cleric spells using WIS as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC
12, Spell Attack +4).

+4
+2
+2
+2
+4

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION
RELIGION

INSIGHT

Bless

Resistance

Command

Sacred Flame

Cure Wounds

Simple Weapons

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

MEDICINE

Disciple of Life (Life Domain)

PERCEPTION

Whenever you use a spell of 1st level or higher to restore HP, the creature regains
additional HP equal to 2 + the spell’s level.

SURVIVAL

DECEPTION
INTIMIDATION

Channel Divinity
You can channel divine energy to fuel magical effects a number of times per short
rest.

PERFORMANCE

Channel Divinity: Turn Undead

PERSUASION

As an action, you can use Channel Divinity. Each undead that can see or hear you
within 30 feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving
throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature must
spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly
move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions.

1ST LEVEL

Light

Weapon Proficiency

NATURE

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS
CANTRIP

Mace

DEATH SAVES

+2

INTELLIGENCE

DAMAGE

SUCCESS
FAIL

+2

ATK BONUS

NAME

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

8
CONSTITUTION

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

SAVING THROW

Guiding Bolt

2ND LEVEL

Channel Divinity: Preserve Life (Life Domain)
As an action, you can use Channel Divinity and present your holy symbol to restore up
to 10 HP divided among any creatures within 30 ft. up to half a creature’s HP max. You
can’t use this feature on an undead or a construct.
Resistance (Brass Draconic Ancestry)
You gain resistance to fire damage.
Breath Weapon (Brass Draconic Ancestry)

Healing Word

As an action once per short rest, exhale in a 5 by 30 ft. line (DEX DC 12, half damage on
success) for 2d6 Fire Damage.

Protection from
Good and Evil

Language Proficiency
Celestial, Common, Draconic, Giant

77

Myastan Rhogar, the Anarchistic Acolyte
Dragonborn Cleric (level 3)
+2
+2

STRENGTH

30

ATHLETICS

+2

CURRENT HP

-1
-1
-1
-1

-1

3d8

SAVING THROW
ACROBATICS
SLEIGHT OF HAND

FAIL

+2

SAVING THROW

18

30 ft

14

AC

SPEED

-1

+2

INITIATIVE

PROFICIENCY

+0
10
WISDOM

+2
15
CHARISMA

+2
14

1d6+2 bludgeoning

Guiding Bolt

+4

4d6 radiant

Sacred Flame

DC

1d8 radiant

Breath Weapon

DC

2d6 fire

Unarmed

+4

3 bludgeoning

Armor Proficiency
Heavy Armor, Light Armor, Medium
Armor, Shields

+0
+0
+2
+0
+0
+2

SAVING THROW

+4
+2
+4
+2
+2
+2

SAVING THROW

Spellcasting

ANIMAL HANDLING

You can cast prepared cleric spells using WIS as your spellcasting modifier (Spell DC
12, Spell Attack +4).

+4
+2
+2
+2
+4

SAVING THROW

ARCANA
HISTORY
INVESTIGATION

Weapon Proficiency
Simple Weapons

NATURE
RELIGION

INSIGHT

CLASS/RACE FEATURES AND OTHER PROFICIENCIES

MEDICINE

Disciple of Life (Life Domain)

PERCEPTION

Whenever you use a spell of 1st level or higher to restore HP, the creature regains
additional HP equal to 2 + the spell’s level.

SURVIVAL

Channel Divinity

DECEPTION

You can channel divine energy to fuel magical effects a number of times per short rest

INTIMIDATION

Channel Divinity: Turn Undead

PERFORMANCE

As an action, you can use Channel Divinity. Each undead that can see or hear you
within 30 feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving
throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A turned creature must
spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly
move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions.

PERSUASION

SPELLS AND SPELLS SLOTS
CANTRIP

+4

DEATH SAVES

+2

INTELLIGENCE

Mace

SUCCESS

8
CONSTITUTION

DAMAGE

HIT DICE

TEMP HP

STEALTH

ATK BONUS

NAME

MAX HP

14
DEXTERITY

ATTACKS AND PROFICIENCIES

SAVING THROW

1ST LEVEL

2ND LEVEL

Light

Bless

Enhance Ability

Resistance

Command

Sacred Flame

Cure Wounds

Lesser
Restoration

Guiding Bolt
Healing Word
Protection from
Good and Evil

Spiritual
Weapon

Channel Divinity: Preserve Life (Life Domain)
As an action, you can use Channel Divinity and present your holy symbol to restore up
to 15 HP divided among any creatures within 30 ft. up to half a creature’s HP max. You
can’t use this feature on an undead or a construct.
Resistance (Brass Draconic Ancestry)
You gain resistance to fire damage.
Breath Weapon (Brass Draconic Ancestry)
As an action once per short rest, exhale in a 5 by 30 ft. line (DEX DC 12, half damage on
success) for 2d6 Fire Damage.
Language Proficiency
Celestial, Common, Draconic, Giant

78

